(a) Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental discharge and/or slug loads of prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this chapter. Users shall submit oral notice to the Water Pollution Control Division immediately from the time the user becomes aware of the accidental discharge, slug discharge or treatment bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain:
(1) A description of the accidental discharge, slug load or treatment bypass and its cause;
(2) The exact date and time of the accidental discharge, slug load or treatment bypass;
(3) The exact date and time of correction and volume of the accidental discharge, slug load or treatment bypass;
(4) If the accidental discharge, slug load or treatment bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
(5) Steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the accidental discharge, slug load or treatment bypass.
(b) The notification required by this section will not relieve users of liability for any expense, loss or damage to the sewer system, treatment plant or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the Water Pollution Control Division on account thereof by any public, State or Federal agency.
(c) The Water Pollution Control Division may issue various notices and information directed towards more effective water pollution control. Such notices and information shall be made available to employees of the user for their information and to solicit their cooperation. A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board advising employees whom to call in case of an accidental discharge in violation of this chapter.
(d) Any possible connection or entry point for a persistent or deleterious substance to be discharged to the user’s plumbing or drainage system shall be appropriately labeled to warn operating personnel against discharge of such substance in violation of this chapter.
(e) In any case where an industrial user knows in advance of the need to bypass and/or discharge a slug load, it shall submit prior notice to the Utilities Director at least 10 days before the date of bypass and/or discharge of a slug load. Such notice shall include information which identifies the time and date of the start and stop of the discharge, the estimated volume of the discharge, as well as any proposed primary treatment to be applied to the discharge.
(f) Upon the request of the Utilities Director, any industrial user may be required to submit to the Division of Water Pollution Control a slug control plan. The plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following elements:
(1) Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch discharges;
(2) Description of stored chemicals; and
(3) Procedures for immediately notifying the Water Pollution Control Division of slug discharges, including any discharge that would violate a prohibition of this chapter, with procedures for follow-up written notification within five days. (Ord. 20089 § 61, 10-17-17.)
