In addition to those terms defined in the Uniform Plumbing Code currently adopted by the city of Topeka, for the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
“Approved assembly” means a backflow preventer that contains two shut-off valves and one to four properly located test ports in addition to two internal components, that is tested and accepted by a recognized testing laboratory approved by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official.
“Approved backflow training provider” means training courses which are approved by the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official as backflow/cross connection training providers.
“Approved device” means a backflow preventer that does not contain shut-off valves or test ports and is tested and accepted by a recognized testing laboratory approved by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official.
“Auxiliary water supply” means any water supply on or available to the premises other than the city’s approved public water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or any natural source, such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor and so forth, used waters, or industrial fluids.
“AWWA Manual” means the AWWA Manual M14, current edition, published by the American Water Works Association.
“Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official” means the individual or individuals designated by the City Manager to enforce the City of Topeka’s backflow prevention and cross connection control program.
“Backflow license” means a document issued by the development services division to a certified backflow tester/repair technician.
“Certified backflow tester/repair technicians” means individuals who have successfully completed an accredited training session recognized by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official. The Development Services Division shall license the tester/repair technicians after ascertaining the technician meets specific qualifications.
“CEU” means one continuing education unit which shall be earned for each one hour of actual classroom instruction.
“Containment” means a backflow prevention assembly installed at the service connection to the property.
“Domestic service” means the pipe carrying potable water from the water meter or other source of water supply to a building or other point of use or distribution on the lot. Domestic service shall also mean “building supply” or “water service.”
“Dual check valve” means a device consisting of two internally loaded soft-seated check valves. This device does not contain test ports or two tightly closing resilient-seated shut-off valves. Dual check valves are not approved for installation as backflow prevention devices.
“Free water surface” means a water surface at atmospheric pressure.
“Industrial fluids” means any fluids or solutions that may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration that would constitute a health, system, pollution or plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include, but shall not be limited to, polluted or contaminated waters; all types of processed waters and used waters originating from the public potable water system that may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and alkalis; circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower; or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters, such as wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, etc.; oils, gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic and acid solutions; and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes, including for firefighting purposes.
“Isolation” means the appropriate method of backflow prevention within the customer’s potable water system at the point of use.
“K.A.R.” means Kansas Administrative Regulations.
“KDHE” means the Kansas Department of Health and Environment.
“Service connection” means the point where the public water supply connects to the customer’s water service, usually at the water meter or property line.
“USC Manual” means the USC Manual of Cross Connection Control, current edition, published by the University of Southern California, Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research.
“USEPA Manual” means the Cross Connection Manual, current edition, published by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 20196 § 2, 7-23-19.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
