(a) Generally.
(1) This chapter applies to any sign within the corporate limits of the City.
(2) It is unlawful for any person to erect, operate, or otherwise use any sign that is prohibited by this chapter.
(3) It is unlawful for any person to erect, operate, or otherwise use any sign at a time, place, or manner that is prohibited by this chapter.
(4) The Planning and Development Director is authorized to interpret and execute the regulations of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Planning and Development Director regarding the administration of this chapter may appeal such decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with Chapter 2.45 TMC.
(5) This chapter does not prohibit signs, sign locations, or sign characteristics that are permitted by an express requirement of State or Federal law.
(b) Exemptions. The regulations of this chapter do not apply to the following:
(1) Signs that are not visible from a public street, highway, road, sidewalk, bicycle, pedestrian path, or similar public way unless the sign is visible from the property line of an adjoining lot or parcel. A sign is considered not visible where it is fully obstructed by natural changes in grade, buildings, or landscaping that provides a complete year-round visual barrier. “Fully obstructed” means that the signs are not visible at ground level from the edge of the public right-of-way or residential property line, or from the upper level of a residential building on an adjoining property.
(2) Signs intended to be read only from inside the property and containing copy of a size not readable from outside the property.
(3) Signs located entirely within the interior of a building or structure, except as otherwise provided for window signs.
(4) Signs associated with the temporary use of a building or site, including buildings or sites undergoing construction, during the time of the temporary use.
(5) In order to promote traffic and public safety, any public notice or warning posted or required by valid and applicable Federal, State, or local law, regulation, or ordinance, including street addresses.
(6) A sign that is integrated into or on a coin-operated machine, vending machine, or gasoline pump that is used for its intended purpose.
(7) Decorative flags.
(8) Government flags.
(9) Fuel pump and fuel pump topper signs.
(10) Pennant streamers.
(11) A sign carried by a person.
(12) A sign affixed to an operable vehicle.
(13) Address numbers and other nonilluminated incidental wall signs.
(c) Districts and Uses. This chapter calibrates sign size, types, and design to the City’s government’s zoning districts in order to protect community character, and to accommodate desired communications and economic activity appropriate to those districts. (Ord. 20207 § 4, 9-10-19.)
Cross References: Board of Zoning Appeals, Chapter 2.220 TMC.
