(a) Referral to Department of Planning. Whenever a request is made to change the name of any public street within the corporate limits of the City of Topeka, or to authorize a memorial designation for any public street within the corporate limits of the City of Topeka, the same shall at once be referred to the Planning Department for a written report as to the advisability of the proposed action. Prior to submitting such a proposal, the requestor shall contact affected residents and businesses located on the street and organized representative groups, including neighborhood improvement associations or neighborhood associations, for input regarding the proposal, and shall provide written evidence of the support of the proposal by these individuals and groups. In addition, the request shall include the background history of the current name.
(b) Reports Required for Action. The Planning Department is hereby authorized and directed to make a report as soon as practicable. No action shall be taken by the City Council on such request pending the receipt of the report.
(c) Naming or Memorial Designation Guidelines. In naming or changing the name of any street, the following guidelines shall be observed:
(1) A street name or memorial designation shall not be the same as the name of an existing thoroughfare.
(2) A street name or memorial designation shall not be the name of a living person or persons.
(3) A street name or memorial designation shall not be the name of an existing or proposed business or existing product or proposed product of a business.
(4) A street name shall be given to the entire length of the street, while a memorial designation may be given for any or all of a street.
(5) The cost to taxpayers and burden on residents and service providers of the proposed action shall be examined.
(d) Consideration of Proposal. Upon receipt of the report from the Planning Department, the City Council may, by ordinance, take appropriate action on the proposal. If a proposal is to change the name of a street, the Planning Department shall change street signs as required by the change. If the proposal is to make a memorial designation of all or part of an existing street, signage bearing the adopted designation shall be placed as determined by the Director of Planning, subject to the availability of budgeted funds designated for such purpose. (Ord. 19063 § 1, 4-1-08; Ord. 18227 § 1, 4-20-04. Code 1995 § 130-11.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
