(a) Sign Area – Freestanding Signs.
(1) Generally. For a sign with one sign face, sign area is computed by means of the smallest square or rectangle that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or other display, together with any panel or material forming an integral part of the background of the display against which it is placed, other than structural supports, but including structural supports for temporary or incidental signs.
(2) Computation of Area of Multi-Faced Signs. The sign area for a sign with more than one face is computed by adding together the area, measured as provided in this subsection (a), of all sign faces visible from any one point. When two sign faces are placed back to back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when the sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches apart, the sign area is computed by measuring one of the faces as provided in this subsection (a).
(b) Sign Area – Attached Signs.
(1) Where sign size is prescribed as a percentage of wall area, the “wall area” is a continuous portion of a building facade below the roofline or major architectural feature as viewed by a person approaching the building.
(2) Where sign size is prescribed as a factor of building frontage, the “building frontage” is the width of the exterior wall on which the sign is located as viewed by a person approaching the building. For the purpose of measurement the wall used as building frontage need not be on the same wall plane.
(3) For an attached sign which is framed, outlined, painted or otherwise prepared and intended to provide a background for a sign display, the area and dimensions include the entire portion within the background or frame.
(4) For an attached sign comprised of individual letters, figures or elements on a wall or similar surface of the building or structure with no distinct mounting surface (such as a board or plastic face) other than the wall, the area is calculated by applying the smallest regular geometric shape possible (rectangle, circle, trapezoid, triangle, etc.) around all letters, figures or elements.
(5) When separate elements are organized to form a single sign, but are separated by open space, the sign area and dimensions shall be calculated by determining the geometric form, or combination of forms, which comprises all of the display areas, including the space between different elements.
(6) The sign area does not include any supporting framework, bracing, artistic elements not part of the sign copy, or decorative fence or wall when the fence or wall otherwise meets zoning ordinance regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
(c) Sign Height. The height of a freestanding sign means the vertical distance from the top of the highest part of a sign, whether the highest part be the sign copy or support structure on which the sign is placed, to the adjoining sidewalk, improved surface, or ground surface within a three-foot horizontal distance of the base of the sign. In the event the surface is sloped the average of the height of the adjoining surface shall be used. For signs with artistic elements exceeding the allowed height, the Planning and Development Director may determine if artistic elements shall be excluded when measuring sign height.
(d) Vertical Clearance. Vertical clearance for detached and projecting signs is measured as the smallest vertical distance between finished grade and the lowest point of the sign, including any framework or other embellishments.
(Ord. 20207 § 9, 9-10-19.)
