The use of the Right-of-Way under this Franchise by the Local Provider shall be subject to all rules, regulations, policies, resolutions, and ordinances now or hereafter adopted or promulgated by the City in the reasonable exercise of its police power relating to use, placement, location, or management of utilities located in the City’s Right-of-Way. In addition, the Local Provider shall be subject to all laws, rules, regulations, policies, resolutions, and ordinances now or hereafter adopted or promulgated by the City in the reasonable exercise of its police power relating to permits, fees, sidewalk and pavement cuts, utility location, construction coordination, screening, and other requirements on the use of the Right-of-Way; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall constitute a waiver of or be construed as waiving the right of the Local Provider to oppose, challenge, or seek judicial review of, in such manner as is now or may hereafter be provided by law, any such rules, regulation, policy, resolution, or ordinance proposed, adopted, or promulgated by the City. Further, the Local Provider shall comply with the following:
(a) The Local Provider’s use of the Right-of-Way shall in all matters be subordinate to the City’s use of the Right-of-Way for any public purpose. The Local Provider shall coordinate the installation of its Facilities in the Right-of-Way in a manner which minimizes adverse impact on Public Improvements, as reasonably determined by the City. Where installation is not otherwise regulated, the Facilities shall be placed with adequate clearance from such Public Improvements so as not to conflict with such Public Improvement.
(b) All earth, materials, sidewalks, paving, crossings, utilities, Public Improvements, or improvements of any kind located within the Right-of-Way damaged or removed by the Local Provider in its activities under this Franchise shall be fully repaired or replaced promptly by the Local Provider without cost to the City, however, when such activity is a joint project of utilities or franchise holders, the expenses thereof shall be prorated among the participants, and to the reasonable satisfaction of the City in accordance with the ordinances and regulations of the City pertaining thereto.
(c) Except in the event of an emergency, as reasonably determined by the Local Provider, the Local Provider shall comply with all laws, rules, regulations, policies, resolutions, or ordinances now or hereinafter adopted or promulgated by the City relating to any construction, reconstruction, repair, or relocation of Facilities which would require any street closure which reduces traffic flow. Notwithstanding the foregoing exception, all work including emergency work performed in the traveled way or which in any way impacts vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be properly signed, barricaded, and otherwise protected.
(d) The Local Provider shall cooperate promptly and fully with the City and take all reasonable measures necessary to provide accurate and complete information regarding the location of its Facilities located within the Right-of-Way when requested by the City or its authorized agents for a Public Project. Such location and identification shall be promptly communicated in writing to the City without cost to the City, its employees, agents, or authorized contractors. The Local Provider shall designate and maintain an agent, familiar with the Facilities, who is responsible for providing timely information needed by the City for the design and replacement of Facilities in the Right-of-Way during and for the design of Public Improvements. At the request of the Local Provider, the City may include design for Facilities in the design of Public Projects. Also at the request of the Local Provider, the City and/or its contractor(s) or agent(s) shall provide accurate and timely field locations of proposed Public Projects in the event the Local Provider is required to install new and/or relocate its Facilities.
(e) The Local Provider shall promptly locate, remove, relocate, or adjust any Facilities located in the Right-of-Way if reasonably necessary and requested by the City for a Public Project. Such location, removal, relocation, or adjustment for a particular Public Project shall be performed by the Local Provider without expense to the City, its employees, agents, or authorized contractors, and shall be specifically subject to rules and regulations of the City pertaining to such. If additional location, removal, relocation, or adjustment is the result of the inaccurate or mistaken information of the Local Provider, the Local Provider shall be responsible for costs associated with such without expense to the City. Likewise, if additional location, removal, relocation or adjustment is the result of inaccurate or mistaken information of the City, the City shall reimburse the Local Provider for any additional expense necessarily incurred by the Local Provider directly due to such inaccurate or mistaken information. The Local Provider shall only be responsible for removal, relocation, or adjustment of Facilities located in the Right-of-Way at the Local Provider’s sole cost once each five (5) years for that particular facility. The City shall reimburse the Local Provider for the removal, relocation, or adjustment of the Local Provider’s Facilities located in the Right-of-Way if required before the expiration of five (5) years from the date of the last relocation, removal, or adjustment of that particular facility.
The Local Provider shall not be responsible for the expenses of relocation to accommodate any new Public Project for Private Development initiated after the effective date of this Ordinance. The expenses attributable to such a project shall be the responsibility of the third (3rd) party upon the request and appropriate documentation of the Local Provider. Before such expenses may be billed to the third (3rd) party, the Local Provider shall be required to coordinate with the third (3rd) party and the City on the design and construction to ensure that the work required is necessary and done in a cost effective manner. The Local Provider may require payment in advance of estimated costs or relocation prior to undertaking any work required to accommodate any new Public Project for Private Development initiated after the effective date of this Ordinance.
The City may continue to provide a location in the Right-of-Way for the Local Provider’s Facilities as part of a Public Project, provided that the Local Provider has cooperated promptly and fully with the City in the design of its Facilities as part of the Public Project.
(f) It shall be the responsibility of the Local Provider to take adequate measures to protect and defend its Facilities in the Right-of-Way from harm or damage. If the Local Provider fails to accurately locate Facilities when requested, it shall have no claim for costs or damages against the City. The Local Provider shall be responsible to the City and its agents, representatives, and authorized contractors for all damages including, but not limited to, delay damages, repair costs, down time, construction delays, penalties or other expenses of any kind arising out of the failure of the Local Provider to perform any of its obligations under this Ordinance. The above general provisions notwithstanding, the City and its authorized contractors shall take reasonable precautionary measures including calling for utility locations through Kansas One Call and exercising due caution when working near the Local Provider’s Facilities.
(g) All technical standards governing construction, reconstruction, installation, operation, testing, use, maintenance, and dismantling of the Facilities in the Right-of-Way shall be in accordance with applicable present and future federal, state, and City laws and regulations, including but not limited to the most recent standards of the Kansas Corporation Commission and U.S. Department of Transportation, and further, to the extent they are not inconsistent with federal or state laws, the City of Topeka standard technical specifications as may be amended from time to time, or such substantive equivalents as may hereafter be adopted or promulgated. It is understood that the standards established in this paragraph are minimum standards and the requirements established or referenced in this Franchise may be additional to or stricter than such minimum standards.
(h) The City encourages the conservation of the Right-of-Way by the sharing of space by all utilities. Notwithstanding provisions of this Franchise prohibiting third (3rd) party use, to the extent required by federal or state law, the Local Provider will permit any other franchised entity by an appropriate grant, or a contract, or agreement negotiated by the parties, to use any and all Facilities constructed or erected by the Local Provider. (Ord. 19468 § 5, 9-21-10.)
