The use of the Right-of-Way under this Franchise by the Company shall be subject to all rules, regulations, policies, resolutions, and ordinances now or hereafter adopted or promulgated by the City in the reasonable exercise of its police power relating to use, placement, location, or management of utilities located in the City’s Right-of-Way. In addition, the Company shall be subject to all laws, rules, regulations, policies, resolutions, and ordinances now or hereafter adopted or promulgated by the City in the reasonable exercise of its police power relating to permits, fees, sidewalk and pavement cuts, utility location, construction coordination, screening, and other requirements on the use of the Right-of-Way; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall constitute a waiver of or be construed as waiving the right of the Company to oppose, challenge, or seek judicial review of, in such manner as is now or may hereafter be provided by law, any such rules, regulation, policy, resolution, or ordinance proposed, adopted, or promulgated by the City. Further, the Company shall comply with the following:
(a) The Company’s use of the Right-of-Way shall in all matters be subordinate to the City’s use of the Right-of-Way for any public purpose. The Company shall coordinate the installation of its Facilities in the Right-of-Way in a manner which minimizes adverse impact on Public Improvements, as reasonably determined by the City. Where installation is not otherwise regulated, the Facilities shall be placed with adequate clearance from such Public Improvements so as not to conflict with such Public Improvement.
(b) All earth, materials, sidewalks, paving, crossings, utilities, Public Improvements, or improvements of any kind located within the Right-of-Way damaged or removed by the Company in its activities under this Franchise shall be fully repaired or replaced promptly by the Company without cost to the City, however, when such activity is a joint project of utilities or franchise holders, the expenses thereof shall be prorated among the participants, and to the reasonable satisfaction of the City in accordance with the ordinances and regulations of the City pertaining thereto.
(c) Except in the event of an emergency, as reasonably determined by the Company, the Company shall comply with all laws, rules, regulations, policies, resolutions, or ordinances now or hereinafter adopted or promulgated by the City relating to any construction, reconstruction, repair, or relocation of Facilities which would require any street closure which reduces traffic flow. Notwithstanding the foregoing exception all work, including emergency work performed in the Right-of-Way or which in any way impacts vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be properly signed, barricaded, and otherwise protected.
(d) The Company shall cooperate promptly and fully with the City and take all reasonable measures necessary to provide accurate and complete information regarding the location of its Facilities located within the Right-of-Way when requested by the City or its authorized agents for a Public Project. Such location and identification shall be promptly communicated in writing to the City without cost to the City, its employees, agents, or authorized contractors. The Company shall designate and maintain an agent, familiar with the Facilities, who is responsible for providing timely information needed by the City for the design and replacement of Facilities in the Right-of-Way during and for the design of Public Improvements. At the request of the Company, the City may include design for Facilities in the design of Public Projects. Also at the request of the Company, the City and/or its contractor(s) or agent(s) shall provide accurate and timely field locations of proposed Public Projects in the event the Company is required to install new and/or relocate its Facilities.
(e) The Company shall promptly locate, remove, relocate, or adjust any Facilities located in the Right-of-Way, City’s easements, or platted utility easements which contain City utilities or facilities if reasonably necessary and requested by the City for a Public Project. Such location, removal, relocation, or adjustment for a particular Public Project shall be performed by the Company without expense to the City, its employees, agents, or authorized contractors, and shall be specifically subject to rules and regulations of the City pertaining to such. If additional location, removal, relocation, or adjustment is the result of the inaccurate or mistaken information of the Company, the Company shall be responsible for costs associated with such without expense to the City. Likewise, if additional location, removal, relocations or adjustment is the result of inaccurate or mistaken information of the City, the City shall reimburse the Company for any additional expense necessarily incurred by the Company directly due to such inaccurate or mistaken information. The Company shall only be responsible for removal, relocation, or adjustment of Facilities located in the Right-of-Way, City’s easements, or platted utility easements which contain City utilities or facilities at the Company’s sole cost once each five (5) years for that particular facility. The City shall reimburse the Company for the removal, relocation, or adjustment of the Company’s Facilities located in the Right-of-Way, City’s easements, or platted utility easements which contain City utilities or facilities if required before the expiration of five (5) years from the date of the last relocation, removal, or adjustment of that particular facility.
The Company shall not be responsible for the expenses of relocation to accommodate any new Public Project for Private Development initiated after the effective date of this Franchise. The expenses attributable to such a project shall be the responsibility of the third (3rd) party upon the request and appropriate documentation of the Company. Before such expenses may be billed to the third (3rd) party, the Company shall be required to coordinate with the third (3rd) party and the City on the design and construction to ensure that the work required is necessary and done in a cost effective manner. The Company may require payment in advance of estimated costs or relocation prior to undertaking any work required to accommodate any new Public Project for Private Development initiated after the effective date of this Franchise.
The City may continue to provide a location in the Right-of-Way for the Company’s Facilities as part of a Public Project, provided that the Company has cooperated promptly and fully with the City in the design of its Facilities as part of the Public Project.
(f) It shall be the responsibility of the Company to take adequate measures to protect and defend its Facilities in the Right-of-Way from harm or damage. If the Company fails to accurately locate Facilities when requested, it shall have no claim for costs or damages against the City. The Company shall be responsible to the City and its agents, representatives, and authorized contractors for all damages including, but not limited to, delay damages, repair costs, down time, construction delays, penalties or other expenses of any kind arising out of the failure of the Company to perform any of its obligations under this Franchise. The above general provisions notwithstanding, the City and its authorized contractors shall take reasonable precautionary measures including calling for utility locations through Kansas One Call and exercising due caution when working near the Company’s Facilities.
(g) All technical standards governing construction, reconstruction, installation, operation, testing, use, maintenance, and dismantling of the Facilities in the Right-of-Way shall be in accordance with applicable present and future federal, state, and City laws and regulations, including but not limited to the most recent standards of the Kansas Corporation Commission and U.S. Department of Transportation, and further, to the extent they are not inconsistent with federal or state laws, the City of Topeka standard technical specifications as may be amended from time to time, or such substantive equivalents as may hereafter be adopted or promulgated. It is understood that the standards established in this paragraph are minimum standards and the requirements established or referenced in this Franchise may be additional to or stricter than such minimum standards.
(h) The City encourages the conservation of the Right-of-Way by the sharing of space by all utilities. Notwithstanding provisions of this Franchise prohibiting third (3rd) party use, to the extent required by federal or state law, the Company will permit any other franchised entity by an appropriate grant, or a contract, or agreement negotiated by the parties, to use any and all Facilities constructed or erected by the Company. (Ord. 19067 § 6, 4-8-08.)
