In the construction of this code and of all ordinances and resolutions passed by the City Council, the rules set out in this section shall be observed and the definitions prescribed in this section shall apply, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City Council.
Advisory Board of Health. The words “Advisory Board of Health” shall mean the City-County Advisory Board of Health.
Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
City. The words “the City” or “this City” shall mean the City of Topeka, in the County of Shawnee, in the State of Kansas.
City Officers, Departments, Etc. Whenever reference is made to an officer, department, council
or other agency, the same shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of Topeka, Kansas.”
Code. The term “code” or “this code” shall mean the code of the City of Topeka.
Computation of Time. The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day is Sunday, that day shall be excluded.
County. The words “the County” mean the County of Shawnee, in the State of Kansas.
Gender. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter.
Governing Body. The words “Governing Body” mean the Mayor and City Council of the City.
Health Agency. The words “Health Agency” shall mean the Shawnee County Health Department.
Health Officer. The words “Health Officer” shall mean the Director of the Shawnee County Health Department.
In the City. The words “in the City” mean and include any territory within the corporate limits of the City of Topeka, Kansas, and the police jurisdiction thereof, and any other territory over which regulatory power has been conferred on the City by general or special act, except as otherwise specified.
Joint Authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
K.S.A. The abbreviation “K.S.A.” shall mean the Kansas Statutes Annotated, as amended.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
Oath. The word “oath” includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “swear” and “sworn” are equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
Or, And. The word “or” may be read as “and,” and the word “and” as “or,” where the sense requires it.
Owner. The word “owner” applied to a building or land shall include not only the owner of the whole, but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Parkings. The word “parkings” or “parking” shall mean the area between the roadway and right-of-way line.
Person. The word “person” includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation, organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal Property. The words “personal property” include every species of property, except real property.
Preceding, Following. The words “preceding” and “following” mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word “property” includes real, personal and mixed property.
Real Property. The words “real property” include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Sidewalk. The word “sidewalk” means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
State. The words “the State” or “this State” mean the State of Kansas.
Street. The word “street” means and includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other public thoroughfares in the City.
Tenant, Occupant. The words “tenant” and “occupant,” applied to a building or land, mean any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Writing, Written. The words “writing” and “written” include typewriting, printing on paper and any other mode of representing words and letters. (Code 1981 § 1-23. Code 1995 § 1-2.)
