(a) Where alleys are not provided in subdivisions, permanent easements of not less than six feet in width shall be provided on each side of all rear lot lines, and on side lot lines where necessary for drainage, utility poles, wires, conduits, gas, water and heat mains and other public utilities. Such easements shall provide for a continuous right-of-way at least 12 feet in width. Where sanitary or storm sewers are installed in the permanent easements, they shall be not less than eight feet in width and shall be provided on each side of all lot lines. Such easements shall provide for a continuous right-of-way at least 16 feet in width. Where the rear lot line or the side lot line is also the boundary line of the subdivision, the entire 16 feet in width shall be provided within the proposed development if an easement is not provided on the adjacent property.
(b) Twelve-foot temporary construction easements shall be provided on each side of the permanent easement for the initial construction of water and sewer lines and other utilities in the subdivision. These temporary easements shall be automatically vacated upon installation of all appropriate utilities.
(c) Any private utility company desiring to install utility lines in a permanent easement shall submit plans to the City Engineer’s office showing the location of the proposed utility. Utility poles, meters and other aboveground obstructions shall be installed no more than four feet from the edge of the easement to allow access and egress of maintenance vehicles and equipment.
(d) Property owners shall be admonished from placing any permanent or semipermanent obstruction in permanent sewer or utility easements. This includes, but is not limited to, trees, shrubs, fences, retaining walls, buildings or other miscellaneous obstructions that interfere with access and egress of maintenance vehicles and equipment for the operation and maintenance of the utilities or pipe lines located in the easement. Any permanent or semipermanent obstruction located in the permanent sewer easement may be removed by personnel representing the City, to provide for the proper operation and maintenance of that utility line, without cost or obligation for replacement. Cost of removal or replacement shall be the responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 18266 § 4, 6-15-04. Code 1981 § 41-100. Code 1995 § 134-142.)
Cross References: City Engineer, TMC 2.20.100 .
