(a) Prohibited Uses. The following uses are explicitly prohibited in the MO district, regardless if said uses are stated as permitted or conditional uses in the underlying districts:
(1) Automobile service, type I;
(2) Automobile service, type III;
(3) Automobile or vehicle car wash;
(4) Automobile sales and service;
(5) Automobile, boat, truck, heavy, and agricultural equipment sales/service;
(6) Automobile or vehicle tow lot and body shop;
(7) Automobile wrecking and/or salvage yard;
(8) Billboard signs (as defined by TMC 18.10.180 );
(9) Drive-through establishments;
(10) Landfill, demolition;
(11) Lawn/garden centers;
(12) Liquor sales, packaged goods;
(13) Manufactured housing and accessory structure sales;
(14) Manufacturing processing, type III;
(15) Raw materials extraction;
(16) Recycling depot;
(17) Restaurant, drive-through;
(18) RV parks or campgrounds;
(19) Truck stop.
(b) Conditional Uses. The following uses shall be permitted in “I,” industrial, and “C,” commercial, districts with the approval of a conditional use permit in accordance with Chapter 18.215 TMC:
(1) Automobile service, type II;
(2) Contractor yards (as a principal use);
(3) Public utility facility, type II;
(4) Recreation, outdoor, type II;
(5) Self-storage, type II;
(6) Storage of nonmerchandise, outdoor (as a principal use);
(7) Tower, communication tower;
(8) Shipping containers as a principal use.
(c) Other Standards.
(1) Shipping Containers as an Accessory Use in Nonresidential Zoning Districts. Shipping containers as an accessory use are permitted but shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from all street rights-of-way.
(2) Outdoor Storage as an Accessory Use. Outdoor storage associated with a permitted principal use shall occupy an area on the site no greater than the site area of the building to which it is related. Additionally, when located along a lot line adjoining a visible public street or in a yard that abuts a residential use or mixed use zoning district, outdoor storage shall be screened from public view by a solid, opaque screen, fence or sight-prohibitive landscaping of not less than six feet in height. If storage is adjacent to driveways or intersections, screening may be reduced to comply with sight distance triangles, as provided in TMC 12.20.020 . (Ord. 20596 § 4, 9-9-25.)
