(a) Form of Ordinance. An ordinance approving a planned unit development and establishing a planned unit development district shall specify the restrictions that will, pursuant to the development plan, apply in the planned development district and shall describe the boundaries of such district or set such boundaries out on a map that is incorporated and published as a part of such document. Such document shall also specify the conditions and restrictions that have been imposed by the Governing Body on the planned development and shall designate geographic areas by use group category. Prior to consideration of an ordinance by the City Council, the applicant shall submit the plan on a permanent-type drafting film material on sheets 24 inches by 36 inches suitable for recording.
(b) Recording. For those proposals which are approved to be reclassified to the planned unit development district, the master plan, and site plan (if concurrent approval is requested by the applicant) as approved by the Governing Body with all conditions, revisions, and restrictions as set forth or imposed by said action of the Governing Body, shall be recorded within 60 days of the action date of the City Council by the applicant with the Register of Deeds. Failure by the applicant to record the plan within the prescribed time period or provide the Planning Department 15 copies of the recorded plan within 90 days of the action by the Governing Body shall deem the zoning petition as null and void. The Planning Director upon written request of the applicant and for good cause shown may extend this time period an additional 30 days. Upon recordation, any changes, revisions, or modifications to the plan shall be in accordance with this division and again recorded in a similar manner; provided, however, if the cause of the delay was one of circumstances beyond the control of the applicant, the Planning Director may grant an additional extension of 90 days.
(c) Site Development Plan Review. If the site plan was not submitted and approved concurrently with the master plan, the following procedure shall apply: following the recording of the master planned unit development plan and prior to application for any building development on the site, the applicant shall be required to submit a site development plan in accordance with the procedures set forth as follows:
(1) Submission of Site Development Plan. A site development plan shall be submitted for the entire area as per the approved master planned unit development plan or for a subarea (single use group area) within the planned development, provided: (i) the plan of the subarea meets all the requirements of the master planned unit development plan; (ii) the dwelling unit density for residential development or total floor area for nonresidential development does not exceed the dimensional standards established by the master plan unit development plan; (iii) the subarea can function as an independent development unit with adequate access, services, utilities, open space; etc.; and (iv) the subarea is more than two acres in size. The applicant shall submit 15 copies of the site development plan which shall contain the following information:
(i) The title of the project, centered across the top of the plan sheet, and the names of the engineer or surveyor and the developer; and a signature panel for the Planning Director’s approval.
(ii) A north point, scale, date and vicinity map.
(iii) Existing zoning and improvement of immediately adjacent properties.
(iv) The boundaries of the entire planned unit development or the specific land use area for which development is sought; all existing property lines; setback lines; the right-of-way and pavement dimension of existing streets; the location, dimension, height and square feet of all existing buildings and identification of those to be retained or removed; location, alignment and area of watercourses, waterways or lakes; and other physical features in or adjoining the proposed development.
(v) The right-of-way and pavement dimension of all proposed streets, loading and parking areas; location, height, type of fixture, and intensity of illumination of all exterior lighting; location and dimension of storm drainage facilities and all curb cuts and access points.
(vi) The location, dimension, height, and square footage of all proposed buildings, main and accessory, including dwelling type and number of dwelling units per building.
(vii) The location of trash receptacles, including the type and height of trash enclosures.
(viii) The location and dimension of proposed recreation areas, open spaces, and other amenities and improvements.
(ix) The location, character, size, height, and orientation of existing and proposed signs.
(x) The location, type, height, and materials of all fences and walls.
(xi) The location and type of all existing trees with a caliper of eight inches or greater. The plan shall indicate which of the trees are to be retained and which are to be removed.
(xii) A landscape plan in compliance with the requirements of the provisions of Chapter 18.235 TMC, Landscape Requirements.
(xiii) A tabulation of the total number of acres in the project, total number of acres in the land use area for which site plan approval is sought, the percentage and acreage thereof proposed to be allocated to residential use, nonresidential uses, off-street parking, common open space, parks, schools, and other reservations.
(xiv) A tabulation of the total number of dwelling units in a residential area and the overall project density in dwelling units per gross acre. Tabulation of floor area by use in a nonresidential area.
(xv) The type, location, and size of all existing and proposed utilities and utility easements extending through or adjacent to the site.
(xvi) A topographic survey showing the elevation of streets, buildings, structures, watercourses, and their names. The topography shall be shown by adequate spot elevations.
(2) Review and Approval of Site Development Plan. Site plans shall be approved administratively by the Planning Director after first circulating the plan and all attachments to all applicable reviewing departments and agencies for written comment. This provision, however, shall not prohibit the Planning Director from requesting a recommendation from the Planning Commission. The site development plan shall be reviewed for conformity with the provisions of the master plan and other applicable codes and regulations of the appropriate jurisdiction. The Planning Director may approve the site development plan as submitted, approve with modifications, remand back to the applicant for modifications, or deny. If the plan is approved, the Director shall certify thereon his approval and state the conditions of approval, if any. If the plan is disapproved, he shall indicate his disapproval and the reasons therefor in writing to the applicant. Appeals of any decision of the Planning Director shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and determination. Appeals of any decision of the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the City Council for final action.
(3) Amendments or modifications to approved site development plans must be submitted to the Planning Department for review and determination. Such modifications shall be submitted to all applicable reviewing agencies and departments for review and comment. The Planning Director shall approve, modify, or deny the proposed amendment in the same manner as the submission of the original site development plan. The Planning Director again may submit the proposed amendment to the Planning Commission for recommendation.
(4) A stop work order shall be put on a project if any improvements required on the approved site development plan are not adhered to during the development of the site. (Ord. 19218 § 5, 2-3-09. Code 1995 § 48-24.05.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 ; Planning Commission, Chapter 2.225 TMC.
