(a) Subject to the provisions of K.S.A. 12-2001 and amendments thereto, there is hereby granted to Grantee this nonexclusive Contract Franchise to provide telecommunications services to the consumers or recipients of such service located within the corporate boundaries of the City, for the term of this Contract Franchise, subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract Franchise.
(b) The grant of this Contract Franchise by the City shall not convey title, equitable or legal, in the Public right-of-way. This Contract Franchise does not:
(1) Grant the right to use Facilities or any other property, telecommunications related or otherwise, owned or controlled by the City or a third-party, without the consent of such party;
(2) Grant the authority to construct, maintain or operate any Facility or related appurtenance on property owned by the City outside of the Public right-of-way; or,
(3) Excuse Grantee from obtaining appropriate access or attachment agreements before locating its Facilities on property or facilities owned or controlled by the City or a third-party.
(c) As a condition of this grant, Grantee is required to obtain and is responsible for any necessary permit, license, certification, grant, registration or any other authorization required by any appropriate governmental entity, including, but not limited to, the City, the FCC or the Kansas Corporation Commission (KCC). Grantee shall also comply with all applicable laws, statutes and/or city regulations (including, but not limited to those relating to the construction and use of the Public right-of-way or other public property).
(d) Grantee shall not provide any additional services for which a franchise is required by the City without first obtaining a separate franchise from the City or amending this Contract Franchise, and Grantee shall not knowingly allow the use of its Facilities by any third party in violation of any federal, state or local law. This Contract Franchise does not provide Grantee the right to provide cable service as a cable operator (as defined by 47 U.S.C. § 522 (5)) within the City. Grantee agrees that this franchise does not permit it to operate an open video system without payment of fees permitted by 47 U.S.C. § 573(c)(2)(B) and without complying with FCC regulations promulgated pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 573 .
(e) Access to the Public right-of-way shall be granted in a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis and not in conflict with state or federal law. (Ord. 20252 § 2, 8-11-20.)
