(a) The following method is established for the establishment and certification of neighborhood improvement associations (NIAs):
(1) Persons interested in forming an NIA shall set a time and place for an organizational meeting and notify all residents of this meeting, either by mail or by hand-delivered flier.
(2) At the organizational meeting, boundaries for the NIA shall be determined, officers shall be elected, and a date, time and place for regular future meetings shall be set.
(3) At the organizational meeting, a petition shall be signed by at least 25 residents, property owners, businesses and persons having a definable interest in the area requesting certification.
(4) A letter requesting certification and the signed petition shall be submitted to the City Manager for approval.
(5) The association shall meet during the month of April each year to elect a president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer.
(6) A quorum for the transaction of business shall be those members present.
(7) If an NIA wishes to extend its boundaries, each resident of the area to be included in the expansion shall be notified of the proposed expansion and given the opportunity at the NIA meeting to express their approval or disapproval.
(b) Each year, on or prior to May 1st, the City Manager shall designate certain census tracts or portions thereof within the City as the community development (CD) target area. Neighborhood improvement associations may be established within the target area. They shall be established as set out in subsection (a) of this section. The responsibilities of these CD target area NIAs shall be as follows:
(1) To identify needs, define objectives and express preferences about activities proposed in the community development block grant funding application.
(2) To act as a vehicle through which individual and group complaints concerning community development program performance are channeled to the Community and Economic Development Department.
(3) To develop neighborhood improvement plans and submit such plans to the Community Development Advisory Board and Director for funding consideration.
(4) To otherwise participate in the development of programs related to community betterment.
(5) To annually elect two representatives to sit on and participate in the Community Development Advisory Council.
(6) To work directly with the staff of community and economic development on those community development programs existing in the NIA which are funded or sponsored by community development block grant funds. (Ord. 20206 § 8, 9-10-19; Ord. 18382 § 28, 1-25-05; Ord. 18263 § 5, 6-8-04. Code 1981 § 13-7. Code 1995 § 42-5. Formerly 2.105.050.)
