(a) Application shall be made to the City Clerk on a form provided by the City Clerk. In addition to paying the license fee, the applicant shall attest to the truthfulness of the application and shall complete the application in full, providing the following information:
(1) Name and permanent address of the applicant and the business. If the applicant is not an individual, the names and permanent addresses of the officers of the corporation or the members of the partnership, firm, limited liability company, or other business entity.
(2) The applicant’s Kansas sales tax certificate number, if applicable.
(3) A brief description of the licensed activity, including the nature of the applicant’s business and the merchandise or services being offered.
(4) The location of any structure, building or conveyance to be used in the course of the licensed activity, including a site plan.
(5) A statement indicating whether or not the applicant has had a transient vending license or a peddler’s or solicitor’s license revoked by the City or another municipality within the two preceding years prior to the date of application.
(6) For peddlers and solicitors, a statement whether or not within 10 years immediately preceding the date of making application the applicant has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving crimes against persons as those crimes are defined in K.S.A. Chapter 21 , Article 54 , and theft, burglary, and criminal use of a financial card as those crimes are defined in K.S.A. Chapter 21 , Article 58 . Criminal background reviews will be conducted by the Police Chief or designee.
(7) For transient vendors, written authorization from the owner or lessee of private property that the applicant may conduct activities at the identified site.
(b) License Fees – Duration. The following license fees shall not be prorated or refundable for any reason, including denial of an application or license revocation:
(1) Transient Vendor. The per day fee shall be as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule. A transient vendor license shall be valid only for the day(s) set out in the license; except that the license is not valid during special events permitted pursuant to Chapter 12.70 TMC unless the participation of the licensee has been approved by the special event sponsor.
(2) Peddler or Solicitor. The annual fee shall be as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule, plus the cost of the criminal background review. A peddler or solicitor license shall expire on December 31st of the year in which it is issued. (Ord. 20662 § 5, 6-2-26.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
