For the purposes of this Agreement the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given herein.
“Gross Revenue” means and includes any and all income and other consideration of whatever nature in any manner gained or derived by Grantee from or in connection with the operation of the Facilities in the Rights of Way, including, but not limited to all rents, payments, fees and other amounts actually collected from any third party and received by Grantee and allocable to the period within the Term or any Renewal Term pursuant to any sublease, sublicense or other agreement for services provided with respect to the Facilities, but exclusive of:
(a) any payments, reimbursements or pass-throughs from the third party to Grantee: (i) for utility charges, taxes and other pass-through expenses, or (ii) in connection with maintenance work performed or equipment installed by Grantee;
(b) site acquisition, construction management or supervision fees related to the installation of the Facilities; and
(c) contributions of capital by any third party to reimburse Grantee in whole or in part for the installation of the Facilities. Gross Revenue shall also not include: (i) sales, ad valorem, or other types of “add-on” taxes, levies, or fees calculated by gross receipts or gross revenues which might have to be paid to or collected for federal, state, or local government (ii) non-collectable amounts due Grantee; (iii) refunds or rebates; and (iv) non operating revenues such as interest income or gain from the sale of an asset.
“Public right-of-way” or “PROW” means only the area of real property in which the City has a dedicated or acquired right-of-way interest in the real property. It shall include the area on, below or above the present and future streets, alleys, avenues, roads, highways, parkways or boulevards dedicated or acquired as right-of-way. The term does not include easements obtained by utilities or private easements in platted subdivisions or tracts. The term does not include infrastructure located within the Public right-of-way owned by the City or other third-parties, such as poles, ducts or conduits.
“Telecommunications service” means the providing or offering for rent, sale or lease, or in exchange for other value received, the transmittal of signals, including but not limited to voice, data, image, radio frequency, graphic or video or other programming information between or among points by wire, lines cable, fiber optics, circuits, laser or infrared, antennae, microwave, radio, satellite or other telecommunications facilities. (Ord. 20044 § 1, 12-20-16.)
