(a) Any department with control of real property that is owned by the City, but no longer needed, shall provide written notification to the Legal Department of the desire to dispose of the property as surplus. All City departments shall be notified of the availability of the property. A City department indicating a need for the real property shall notify the Legal Department to ensure the appropriate transfer of the property. The transfer of the property shall be approved by the City Manager.
(b) If no City department indicates an interest in the surplus real property, the City Attorney or designee will provide the following information to the Governing Body:
(1) An aerial or other depiction of the property showing the dimensions and the location of buildings and improvements thereon.
(2) A legal description and the current zoning.
(3) A statement of City ownership of the property, detailing the date the City acquired the property and the reason therefor.
(4) The current use and potential use of the property.
(5) The appraised value of the property.
(6) The procedure proposed for disposal of the property.
(7) The financial impact of the proposed transaction.
(c) The Governing Body shall determine whether to dispose of the property and, if so, approve one of the following methods of disposal:
(1) Transfer to Government Agency. Transfer to a local governmental, State or Federal agency by donation, exchange or sale.
(2) Public Auction. Auction to the highest bidder after advertisement in the official City newspaper at least 10 days prior to the auction date.
(3) Competitive Bidding. Competitive sealed bids based upon a written request for proposals. A notice of the proposed sale shall be published in the official City newspaper at least 10 days prior to acceptance of proposals. All proposals shall be delivered to the City Attorney or designee by the time and date specified in the request for proposals.
(4) Private Sale. By private sale, in the following cases:
(i) Sale to an owner of the real property contiguous to the real property being sold, provided the property being sold is less than the minimum required for development under the City zoning ordinance and is without any capital improvement thereon. All abutting property owners shall have an equal opportunity to purchase the property through an invitation to bid.
(ii) No purchase contract is secured after six months from the date of the public auction referenced in subsection (c)(2) of this section or notice of the bid request referenced in subsection (c)(3) of this section.
(iii) Sale to an individual or entity where the use of the property will be solely for a public benefit, including, but not limited to, affordable housing.
(5) Donation. Donation to an individual or entity where the use of the property will be used solely for a public benefit, including, but not limited to, affordable housing.
(6) Other Methods. Any other method approved by the Governing Body. (Ord. 20300 § 22, 6-8-21.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
