(a) A person desiring a moving permit shall file an application with the Development Coordination Office on a form provided by such office. Along with the application, the applicant shall:
(1) Submit a written document from any affected utility stating whether it will be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere with any wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally owned utility, and if so, the application shall state also the name of such public or municipally owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant’s moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise interfering with such aerial facilities.
(2) Submit a legal description of current and future locations of the structure.
(3) Submit a proposed map to be used in the moving of the structure.
(4) Submit the address of current and future locations of the structure.
(5) Submit the name of the moving company if applicable.
(6) Submit a fee for the moving permit in the amount as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule.
(7) Submit proof of public liability insurance with limits of liability of not less than $25,000 for bodily injury to any one person and $50,000 for bodily injuries in any one accident to property in any one accident.
(8) Submit a schedule for moving of the structure as provided by the Police Department pursuant to TMC 14.70.030 .
(b) If the structure is to be relocated within the City, the following additional requirements shall apply:
(1) Pay a relocation fee as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule.
(2) Before the structure is removed, a footing and/or footing and foundation for the structure must be in place.
(3) Upon relocation of a one- or two-family dwelling, the structure must comply with the housing code, Chapter 8.60 TMC.
(Inspections for compliance with such standards may require on-site testing at the applicant’s expense.)
(c) Upon submission of all required information, payment of the applicable fee and approval by the City Engineer and City Forester, the Development Coordination Office shall issue the moving permit. (Ord. 20631 § 55, 1-13-26.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 ; City Engineer, TMC 2.20.100 ; City Forester, Chapter 12.65 TMC.
State Law References: Permit applications and fees, K.S.A. 17-1915 .
