(a) Generally. Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided for in this article, the Director is authorized to implement certain mandatory water conservation measures including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Irrigation utilizing individual sprinklers or sprinkler systems of lawns, gardens, landscaped areas, trees, shrubs or other plants is prohibited except on a designated day which shall be on alternate days. Consumers with even-numbered addresses shall irrigate on even-numbered days. Those with odd-numbered addresses shall irrigate on odd-numbered days. The indicated days for irrigation are referred to in this article as designated irrigation days. Provided, however, irrigation of lawns, gardens, landscaped areas, trees, shrubs, or other plants is permitted at any time if:
(i) A handheld hose is used; or
(ii) A handheld faucet-filled bucket of five gallons or less is used; and
(iii) No waste of water occurs.
Exception: Commercial nurseries, commercial sod farmers, and similarly situated commercial establishments are exempt from stage 2 irrigation restrictions; provided, however, that all such commercial establishments will be required to curtail all nonessential water use and eliminate waste of water.
(2) The use of water for irrigation of golf tee areas and golf greens is allowed only during the hours from sunset to sunrise. Syringing of golf course greens is allowed to the extent necessary to keep the greens from becoming stressed. The irrigation of golf course fairways is allowed only on alternate days during the hours from sunset to sunrise. Provided, however, that irrigation of golf courses utilizing treated wastewater, reusing water, or utilizing raw water shall not be subject to irrigation prohibitions unless the source of the raw water is within one-quarter mile of the free-flowing stream of the Kansas River.
(3) The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes, and other types of mobile equipment is prohibited except on designated irrigation days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 12:00 noon. For purposes of this section, designated irrigation days shall be those even-odd days as set forth in this section as it relates to the owner’s (of the mobile equipment) address. Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a handheld bucket, or a handheld hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick rinses. The nozzle shall be removed when the hose is not in use.
Exception: Washing of mobile equipment may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a commercial car wash. Further, such washing may be exempted from these regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the public is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleanings, such as garbage trucks and vehicles to transport food and perishables.
(4) The sprinkling of foundations is prohibited except on designated irrigation days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 12:00 noon.
(5) The refilling or adding of water to swimming and/or wading pools is prohibited except on designated irrigation days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 12:00 noon.
(6) The operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making similar use of water is prohibited except for those fountains/structures with a recycling system. The use of treated water to fill, refill or maintain the level of any fountain is prohibited.
(7) Use of water from fire hydrants shall be limited to firefighting and related activities, and/or other activities necessary to maintain the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City. Water for street sweeping shall only be allowed to the extent necessary for maintaining the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City.
(8) The waste of water is absolutely prohibited.
(9) All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to their customers except when specifically requested by the customer.
(10) New connections outside the City limits to the City’s water distribution system, including any connections to rural water districts served by the City water system, will be suspended, except those agreements for individual service connections entered into by the City prior to the effective date of the declaration of the emergency.
(11) The use of water sprinklers to cool air conditioners and flat-roofed buildings shall be limited to only the amount needed to provide for the essential health needs of the citizens of the City; and provided, that no waste of water occurs.
(b) Emergency Water Rates. Upon declaration of a water supply emergency as provided for in this article, the Director is authorized to impose emergency water rates that are designed to conserve water supplies. Such emergency rates may provide for, but not be limited to, extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess demand surcharge). The Director may impose the emergency rates if needed to enforce the provisions of stage 2 when assurance storage levels in Tuttle Creek and Milford Reservoirs fall below 75 percent capacity. The emergency rate will be a rate 50 percent above the rate in effect for all consumption higher than the consumer’s baseline consumption.
Consumers who do not exceed their baseline amount shall be billed at their regular rate. Consumers who exceed their baseline rate shall pay the regular rate for the baseline amount, and a rate 50 percent above the normal rate for all consumption higher than the baseline amount. (Code 1981 § 44-164(b). Code 1995 § 146-171.)
