For the purposes of this Ordinance the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent within the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense and words in the single number include the plural number.
(a) “Contract Franchise” means this Ordinance granting the right, privilege and franchise to IdeaTek to provide services within the City.
(b) “Distributed antenna systems” (“DAS Facility”) – mean certain components of the Network consisting of distributed antenna systems which may be located on existing or new streetlights, stand-alone poles, third party utility poles, and other structures located on or within the ROW as permitted under this Contract Franchise ordinance, and which will be connected to IdeaTek’s Facilities.
(c) “Facilities” means any portion of a system located in, along, over, upon, under, or through the right-of-way and may include, without limitation, antenna nodes, poles, streetlight poles, equipment cabinets, underground and above ground fiber optic cable, fiber handholes and enclosures, fiber repeaters and related equipment, DAS Facility, and will include other equipment as technology evolves, in a configuration and at locations to be filed and identified through the City permit process.
(d) “Laws” or “Law” as used in this Agreement means any and all statutes, constitutions, ordinances, resolutions, regulations, judicial decisions, rules, permits, approvals or other applicable requirements of the City or other governmental entity or agency having joint or several jurisdiction over the Parties’ activities under this Agreement or having jurisdiction that is applicable to any aspect of this Agreement that are in force on the Effective Date and as they may be enacted, issued or amended during the term of this Agreement.
(e) “IdeaTek” means IdeaTek Telcom, LLC, a competitive telecommunications local exchange service provider providing local exchange, Internet services, and other telecommunications services within the City. References to IdeaTek shall also include as appropriate any and all successors and assigns.
(f) “Gross receipts” shall be defined as set forth in K.S.A. 12- 2001(c)(6) . Uncollectible and late charges, taxes, surcharges, and other pass-through charges shall not be included within gross receipts.
(g) “Right-of-way” or “ROW” means the surface and space on, above and below every municipal street, alley, road, highway, lane or City right-of-way dedicated or commonly used now or hereafter for utility purposes, including but not limited to overhead lighting facilities, and including utility easements wherein the City now or hereafter acquires the right and authority to locate or permit the location of utilities consistent with communications facilities. This term shall not include any county, state, or federal right-of-way or any property owned or controlled by any person or agency other than the City, except as provided by applicable laws or pursuant to an agreement between the City and any such person or agency. Right-of-way shall not include property owned or held by City and not typically considered right-of-way such as City parks and City buildings. (Ord. 20581 § 1, 8-12-25.)
