(a) Generally. Signs regulated under this chapter shall be installed, erected, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(b) Notice of Violation.
(1) If a sign fails to meet the requirements of this chapter, the Planning and Development Director shall cause a notice to be sent to the owner of record of the tract or building upon which the sign is situated, and for billboards, to the permit holder of the sign, by certified mail, return receipt requested, and regular mail.
(2) The notice shall inform the owner or permit holder of the location of the sign and the nature of the violation.
(3) The owner or permit holder shall have 30 days from the date on the notice to correct the violation. For good cause shown, the Building Official may extend the time for compliance.
(4) Any owner or permit holder failing to timely correct the violation may be subject to criminal prosecution with the penalty as set forth in TMC 1.10.070 . The Planning and Development Director shall not issue building permits for new signs to any person who is in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(c) Removal of Signs on Public Property.
(1) Except where expressly permitted, signs posted or otherwise affixed to or on any of the following, or as described below, are unlawful and in violation of this chapter and are subject to immediate removal without notice:
(i) Any public building or any public bridge;
(ii) Any sidewalk, crosswalk, or curb;
(iii) Any public right-of-way;
(iv) Any paved portion of any street or highway;
(v) Any median strip of any divided street or highway;
(vi) Any street sign or on any traffic sign or signal or any railroad sign or signal;
(vii) Any telephone, electric light, power, or any other utility pole or any fire hydrant;
(viii) Any tree on public property, including those in the public right-of-way;
(ix) Any public park;
(x) In a manner that may cause a reduction in intersection sight distances or create any other hazard to life or safety;
(xi) In a manner which obstructs clear vision of any road or railroad intersection; or
(xii) In a manner which obstructs any authorized traffic control device.
(2) Any signs removed under this subsection will be held for 10 days and, if not claimed within that time, will be disposed of in accordance with subsection (d) of this section.
(3) This subsection does not apply to signs erected by, on behalf of, or pursuant to the authorization of a governmental body, including identification, informational, traffic, directional, or regulatory signs.
(d) Fines and Cost of Sign Removal.
(1) In addition to any criminal penalties, each violation of this chapter shall be subject to an administrative monetary penalty in the amount of $50.00 levied by the Planning and Development Director. Every day of violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(2) The fine may be collected from the property owner, sign owner, or permittee. If the property owner or permittee fails to pay the fine, such fine may be certified to the City Clerk, who shall assess the costs as a special assessment against the lot or parcel of land upon which the sign was located in the manner provided by law.
(3) Any sign removed by the Planning and Development Director may be disposed of in any reasonable manner. The Planning and Development Director, with the approval of the City Manager, may establish a fee schedule for removal and storage of unauthorized signs.
(4) The fee may be collected from the property owner, sign owner, or sign permittee. If the property owner, sign owner, or permittee fails to pay the authorized fee, such fee may be certified to the City Clerk, who shall assess the costs as a special assessment against the lot or parcel of land upon which the sign was located in the manner provided by law.
(e) Revocation of Permits. The Planning and Development Director may revoke any sign permit under the provisions of this chapter or order the removal of any sign for any of the following reasons:
(1) Whenever a permit holder is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance relating to signs;
(2) Whenever any false statement or misrepresentation has been made on the application on which the issuance of the permit was based; or
(3) Whenever the sign owner has failed to maintain a sign in conformance with this chapter or any other ordinance relating to signs. (Ord. 20207 § 7, 9-10-19.)
Cross References: City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 .
