(a) The type of approved device or assembly required to be installed on the water service line to protect the water supply under this article shall be determined by the degree of hazard which exists as determined by the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official.
(1) The following are examples which pose a high degree of hazard requiring an approved air-gap or reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RP):
(i) Premises having auxiliary water supply.
(ii) Premises where material dangerous to health is handled in a manner which creates an actual or potential hazard.
(iii) Premises with uncontrolled cross connections.
(iv) Premises where, because of security requirements or other prohibitions, it is impossible to complete an in-plant cross connection inspection.
(2) The examples of uses or activities which may constitute a high degree of hazard to the water supply and shall require an approved device or assembly specified by the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official determined by the degree of hazard include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Beverage bottling plants.
(ii) Buildings: hotels, apartments, public or private buildings, or other structures having actual or potential cross connections. This includes structures of four stories or more and/or structures equipped with booster pumps.
(iii) Car wash facilities.
(iv) Chemical manufacturing, handling or processing plants.
(v) Chemically contaminated water.
(vi) Dairies and cold storage facilities.
(vii) Dentist offices.
(viii) Doctor’s offices equipped with laboratories or surgeries.
(ix) Film or photography processing laboratories.
(x) Fire protection systems.
(xi) Hospitals, medical centers, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy facilities, clinics, or nursing and convalescent homes.
(xii) Ice machines.
(xiii) Irrigation systems.
(xiv) Laundries.
(xv) Metal cleaning, metal plating, processing or fabricating plants.
(xvi) Nursing and convalescent homes designed for acute care.
(xvii) Oil and gas production, storage or transmission facilities.
(xviii) Packing or food processing plants.
(xix) Paper and paper products plants.
(xx) Power plants.
(xxi) Radioactive materials plants or handling facilities.
(xxii) Restricted or classified facilities.
(xxiii) Rubber manufacturing plants.
(xxiv) Sand, gravel or asphalt plants.
(xxv) Schools or colleges.
(xxvi) Sewage and storm drainage facilities and reclaimed water systems.
(xxvii) Solar heating systems.
(xxviii) Temporary nonemergency service: fire hydrants, air valves, blow-offs and other outlets.
(xxix) Veterinary facilities.
(xxx) Waterfront marinas.
(b) Approved devices or assemblies shall be installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow or backsiphonage may occur and where a minimum air-gap between the potable water outlet and the fixture or equipment flood level rim cannot be maintained. Backflow and backsiphonage devices or assemblies of all types shall be in an accessible location to allow for proper testing.
Access and clearance shall be provided for the required testing, maintenance and repair. Access and clearance shall require a minimum of one foot between the lowest portion of the assembly and grade, floor or platform. Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official approval is required before backflow devices or assemblies are installed at an elevation of six feet or more above the grade, floor or platform.
Connection to the potable water piping and initial installation of all backflow prevention devices or assemblies shall be made by a Topeka licensed plumber employed by a Topeka licensed plumbing contractor.
(c) Replacement of an existing device or assembly may be made by licensed and certified backflow tester/technicians employed in the trade or craft for which the backflow device or assembly was installed (i.e., lawn irrigation, fire suppression, ice machine installation, etc.).
Certified backflow/tester technicians shall maintain, repair and test devices or assemblies.
(d) Cross connection control fees for backflow preventers and lawn irrigation systems connected to the potable water supply system of the City outside the City limits shall be established by the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official, as approved by the City Manager, and maintained in a schedule of fees and charges. The Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official shall determine such fees for residential and commercial installations and replacements, based on the cost of service provided and an additional charge equal to the percentage difference between inside-City and outside-City water rates.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make connection to the potable water supply system of the City for the categories of premises in this section without an approved assembly or approved device.
(1) Penalty. Any person violating this section may be punished by:
(i) Fine of not more than $499.00; and/or
(ii) Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days. (Ord. 20196 § 6, 7-23-19.)
Cross References: Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
