(a) This Contract Franchise shall be effective for a term of ten (10) years from the effective date of this Contract Franchise ordinance. Thereafter, this Contract Franchise will renew for additional one (1) year terms, unless either party notifies the other party of its intent to terminate or renegotiate the Contract Franchise at least ninety (90) days before the termination of the then current term. The additional term shall be deemed a continuation of this Contract Franchise and not as a new franchise or amendment.
(b) Upon written request of either the City or MCImetro, this Contract Franchise shall be renegotiated at any time in accordance with the requirements of state law upon any of the following events: changes in federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or orders that materially affect any rights or obligations of either the City or MCImetro, including but not limited to the scope of the Contract Franchise granted to MCImetro or the compensation to be received by the City hereunder.
(c) If any clause, sentence, section, or provision of K.S.A. 17-1901 et seq., and any amendments thereto, shall be held to be invalid by any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, provided such order is not stayed, either the City or Franchisee may elect to request an amendment to the Franchise Agreement to be consistent with the order, unless the Franchise Agreement cannot be reasonably amended to remain a valid agreement in light of the order, in which event either the City or Franchisee may elect to terminate the entire Franchise Agreement. In the event of such invalidity and termination, if either the City or Franchisee is required by law to enter into a new agreement or an Ordinance Franchise with the other, the parties agree to act in good faith to promptly negotiate a new agreement or an Ordinance Franchise.
(d) Amendments under this section, if any, shall be made by Contract Franchise ordinance as prescribed by statute. This Contract Franchise shall remain in effect according to its terms, pending completion of any review or renegotiation provided by this section.
(e) In the event the parties are actively negotiating in good faith a new Contract Franchise ordinance or an amendment to this Contract Franchise upon the termination date of this Contract Franchise, the parties by written mutual agreement may extend the termination date of this Contract Franchise to allow for further negotiations. Such extension period shall be deemed a continuation of this Contract Franchise and not as a new Contract Franchise ordinance or amendment. (Ord. 20628 § 12, 1-13-26.)
