“Parcel” means a lot or group of contiguous lots in single ownership or under single control and usually considered a unit for purposes of development.
“Park” means a tract of land open to use by the public for open space, cultural activities, or active and passive recreational purposes. It may include the following accessory uses: swimming pools, spray parks, court and field games, shelters, preserve and natural areas, historic sites, museums, botanical gardens, arboretums, performing art or live theaters, aquariums, planetariums, wildlife preserves, dog parks, boat ramps, fishing piers, zoos, and similar facilities, including related maintenance and support facilities.
“Parking aisle” means a paved surface which is connected directly to a parking space and designated to permit ingress or egress of a vehicle to or from the parking space. In no case can a parking aisle be a driveway.
“Parking lot” means an off-street, ground-level area, surfaced in accordance with the standards and specifications of the City of Topeka for the temporary storage of motor vehicles.
“Parking space” means a paved surface, exclusive of an aisle, which is intended for off-street vehicular parking.
“Performance standards” means specific criteria limiting the operations of certain industries, land uses, and buildings to acceptable levels of noise, air pollution emissions, odors, vibration, dust, dirt, glare, heat, fire hazards, wastes, traffic generation and visual impact.
“Permitted use” means any use authorized in a particular zoning district.
“Person” means a corporation, company, association, society, firm, partnership or joint stock company as well as an individual, a state and all political subdivisions of a state or any agency or instrumentality thereof.
“Personal care” means protective care with or without watchful oversight of a resident who does not have an illness or a condition which requires chronic or convalescent medical or nursing care with a 24-hour responsibility for the safety of the resident when in the building.
“Personal services” means establishments primarily engaged in providing services involving the care of a person and his or her apparel. These include beauty, cosmetic and barber shops; self-service laundromats; dry cleaning and laundry receiving stations with processing elsewhere; tanning salons, and tailor and shoe repair shops.
“Pharmacy” means a place where drugs, prostheses, rehabilitation equipment and medicines are prepared and dispensed.
“Pickup truck” means a motor vehicle not exceeding 15,000 pounds gross vehicle weight manufactured with a cab for passengers, and an open-top rear cargo area (bed) of four to eight feet in length, with low sides along the bed, and a rear tailgate, or a flat or stake bed not exceeding seven and one-half feet in width and nine feet in length.
“Planned unit development (PUD)” means a form of development characterized by a unified site design for a number of housing units, clustering buildings and providing common open space, density increases, and a mix of building types and land uses.
“Planning Commission” means the Topeka Planning Commission.
“Plat of a subdivision” means a plan or map prepared in accordance with the provisions of applicable subdivision regulations.
Platting. Whenever the term “platting” or “platted” is used within these zoning regulations it shall refer to the process established by the subdivision regulations of the City of Topeka, Kansas (Division 3 of this title).
“Porch, open” means a roof partially supported by columns or wall sections.
“Preapplication conference” means discussions held between developers and public officials, usually members of the planning staff, before formal submission of an application for a permit or for subdivision plat approval.
“Premises” means any lot or tract, or combination of contiguous lots or tracts of land held in single ownership, together with the improvements thereon; a condominium complex constitutes one premises.
“Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as distinguished from a secondary or accessory use.
“Professional office” means the office of a person engaged in any occupation, vocation, or calling, not purely commercial, mechanical, or agricultural, in which a professed knowledge or skill in some department of science or learning is used by its practical application to the affairs of others, either advising or guiding them in serving their interest or welfare through the practice of an act found thereon.
“Provisional use” means a principal use which is allowed in the zone in which listed, provided it complies with the additional regulations listed for the use and all other dimensional and special (if any) requirements of the zone in which listed.
“Public or private educational facility” means a public elementary, secondary, or high school and private schools with curricula equivalent to that of a public elementary, secondary or high school.
“Public use facility” means any building, structure, utility, or land held, used, or controlled exclusively for public purposes by any department or branch of government: Federal, State, County, or municipal or subdivision thereof.
“Public utility” means any business or enterprise which furnishes the general public telephone, cable, electric, internet, natural gas, water, or sewer service, and is subject to supervision or regulation by an agency of the State or Federal government.
“Public utility facilities, type I” means water lines, sewer lines, poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves, hydrants, and small unenclosed booster or pump stations, and other similar facilities located on public rights-of-way, public property, or public easements and operated by a public utility.
“Public utility facilities, type II” means substations, medium and large booster or pump stations, distribution stations, treatment plants, transmission equipment buildings, towers or reservoirs, and similar uses facilitating utility transmission, distribution, and collection systems located on public rights-of-way, public property, or public easements and operated by a public utility.
“Public way” means any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other thoroughfare dedicated for public use. (Ord. 20062 § 13, 4-18-17.)
