Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or be maintained in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the height limit established in this section for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as follows:
(a) Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone. Slopes upward 20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(b) Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone. Slopes upward 20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(c) Runway Larger Than Utility with a Visibility Minimum Greater Than Three-Fourths-Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes upward 34 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(d) Runway Larger Than Utility with a Visibility Minimum as Low as Three-Fourths-Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes upward 34 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(e) Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone. Slopes upward 50 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(f) Transitional Zones. Slopes upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach zones, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 1,079 feet above mean sea level at Forbes Field and 880 feet above mean sea level at Philip Billard Airport. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach zones, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically shall be maintained beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the precision instrument runway approach surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
(g) Horizontal Zone. One hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation or a height of 1,229 feet above sea level at Forbes Field and 1,030 feet above mean sea level at Philip Billard Airport.
(h) Conical Zone. Slopes upward and outward 20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
(i) Excepted Height Limitations. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to 75 feet above the surface of the land.
Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail. (Code 1981 § 4-58. Code 1995 § 22-29.)
State Law References: Height restrictions authorized, K.S.A. 3-703 .
