(a) Electricity shall be required for each mobile home unit, and electrical equipment shall be installed in compliance with State and local wiring codes and the National Electrical Code as adopted by the City, Articles 230 and 550. All electrical wiring in the mobile home park shall be done by licensed electrical contractors and licensed electricians. The park operator shall be responsible to see that any unsafe wiring is corrected, including the power supply cord or the permanently installed circuit from the mobile home distribution panel board to the mobile home service equipment rated not less than 50 amperes.
(b) The system and exposed noncurrent-carrying metal parts of electrical equipment and conductors shall be grounded in accordance with the provisions of the National Electrical Code as adopted by the City, Articles 250 and 550. The grounded conductor and the equipment grounding conductor shall be effectively grounded at each mobile home service center. (Note: The mobile home supply center contains one or more attachment plug receptacles with appropriate overcurrent protection.)
(c) The mobile home electrical service equipment shall be rated not less than 100 amperes, which shall be permitted to contain multiwired receptacles with a minimum rating of 50 amperes or provide a feeder assembly by permanent wiring method, either method with appropriate overcurrent protection. Means for connecting accessory buildings or additional electrical equipment outside the mobile home shall be provided and the appropriate overcurrent protection provided.
(d) The power supply to the mobile home shall be a feeder assembly consisting of not more than three mobile home power supply cords, each rated 50 amperes distinctly marked, or a permanently installed circuit; provided, however, that a mobile home that is factory-equipped with gas or oil-fired central heating equipment and cooking appliances shall be permitted to be equipped with a mobile home power supply cord marked and rated at 40 amperes. The length of the supply cord shall be not less than 20 feet nor more than 36 and one-half feet from the face of the attachment plug cap to the point the cord enters the mobile home. (Code 1981 § 25-108. Code 1995 § 98-157.)
