“Railroad right-of-way” means a strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for track operation, but not including freight depots or stations, loading platforms, train sheds, warehouses, car or locomotive shops, or car yards.
“Reclassification” means a form of rezoning in which the zone designation of an area or particular property is changed by changing the zoning map.
“Recreation, indoor (type I)” means lower intensity recreational activities including: swimming pools, racquetball courts, gymnasiums, health and fitness clubs, athletic clubs, roller and ice skating rinks, ice hockey, bingo parlor, laser tag, yoga studio, martial arts training, and similar activities.
“Recreation, indoor (type II)” means higher intensity recreational uses including: pool and billiard halls, bowling alleys, arcades, indoor amusement parks, and similar activities.
“Recreation, outdoor (type I)” means low intensity activities including: shuffleboard and bocci ball courts, tennis and basketball courts, swimming pools, horse shoe pits, golf courses including their associated driving/putting ranges, clubhouses, and similar activities.
“Recreation, outdoor (type II)” means medium intensity activities including: batting cages, dog parks, miniature golf, driving ranges, model airplane flying areas, and similar activities.
“Recreation, outdoor (type III)” means high intensity activities including: go-kart tracks, horse and auto racetracks, drag strips, motorized kiddie parks, amusement parks, sport stadiums/complexes and arenas, outdoor concert, music, performance, theater venues, and similar activities.
“Recreational vehicle campground” means a plot of ground upon which 24 or more campsites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by camping units of the general public as temporary living quarters for recreation, education or vacation purposes.
“Refuse/solid waste” means garbage and other discarded materials including, but not limited to, solid, semisolid, sludges, liquid and contained gaseous waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural and domestic activities. Such term shall not include hazardous wastes.
“Religious assembly” means a structure or place in which worship, ceremonies, rituals, interment of the human dead, and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs are held.
“Research laboratory” means an establishment for investigation in the natural, physical or social sciences, or engineering and development as an extension of investigation with the objective of creating products.
“Residence” means a home, dwelling or place where an individual is actually living at a specific point in time.
“Residential board and care facility” means a building or part thereof that is used for the lodging and boarding of nine or more residents not related by blood or marriage to the owners or operators to provide personal care and/or counseling services, but not to provide nursing care.
“Residential care” means providing various levels of some or all of the following care and assistance as well as these services generally so associated to permit individuals to live and function as independently as possible, all on a 24-hour-a-day basis: food and dietetic services; transportation, social, educational, recreational, and activity arrangements; personal services, personal care and domiciliary assistance; watchful and protective oversight; simple nursing care; and supervision.
“Residential care facility, type I” means a nonsecure dwelling building or portion thereof, and premises, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, functioning as one dwelling unit in which residential care for profit or not for profit is provided to children and/or adults unrelated by blood, adoption, or marriage to the caregivers, administrator or owner, on a 24-hour-a-day basis to a maximum of four persons.
“Residential care facility, type II” means a nonsecure dwelling building or portion thereof, and premises, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, functioning as one dwelling unit in which residential care for profit or not for profit is provided to children and/or adults unrelated by blood, adoption, or marriage to the caregivers, administrator or owner, on a 24-hour-a-day basis to a maximum of 10 persons.
“Residential care facility, type III” means a nonsecure dwelling building or portion thereof, and premises, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, in which residential care for profit or not for profit is provided to children and/or adults unrelated by blood, adoption or marriage to the caregivers, administrator or owner, on a 24-hour-a-day basis.
“Residential-design manufactured home” means a manufactured home on a permanent foundation which has: (1) minimum dimensions of 22 body feet in width, (2) a pitched roof, and (3) siding and roofing materials which are customarily used on site-built homes.
“Restaurant” means a public eating establishment in which the primary function is the preparation and serving of food and beverage, and which may be family dining, carry-out, drive-in or fast food type.
“Restaurant, carry-out” means an establishment which by design of physical facilities or by service or packaging procedures permits or encourages the purchase of prepared ready-to-eat food and beverage intended primarily to be consumed off the premises, and where the consumption of food and beverage in motor vehicles on the premises is not permitted or not encouraged.
“Restaurant, drive-in” means a building or portion thereof where food and/or beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption and where all or a significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take place outside the confines of the building, often in a motor vehicle on the site.
“Restaurant, family dining” means a public eating establishment in which the primary function is the preparation and serving of food and beverage for consumption on the premises.
“Restaurant, fast-food” means an establishment whose principal business is the sale of pre-prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a ready-to-consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building or off premises with significant off-premises sales typically being accomplished via a drive-through window.
“Retail sales/service” means merchandising and repair activities of products having minimal impacts on nearby residents, specifically including shops for: apparel and accessories, bicycles, blueprinting, books, cards, cameras, computers, cosmetics, crafts, electronics, florists, food, gifts, home furnishings, jewelry, locksmith, music/video, musical instruments, office supplies, picture framing, small home appliances, sporting goods (excluding gun and ammunition sales/service), toys, travel agency, variety, and similar services.
“Retail store” means any building or structure in which one or more articles of merchandise or commerce are sold at retail, including department stores.
“Retail trade” means establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods.
“Rezoning” means an amendment to or a change in the district map provided by an ordinance or resolution, as applicable to the subject jurisdiction.
“Riding academy” means an establishment where horses are boarded and cared for and where instruction in riding, jumping and showing is offered and the general public may, for a fee, hire horses for riding.
“Room” means any enclosed division of a building containing over 70 square feet of floor space and commonly used for living purposes, not including lobbies, halls, closets, storage space, bathrooms, utility rooms, and unfinished attics, cellars or basements. An “enclosed division” is an area in a structure bounded along more than 75 percent of its perimeter by vertical walls or partitions, or by other types of dividers which serve to define the boundaries of the division.
“Rural home, suburban home” means a residence located in the urban fringe or rural area that is occupied or intended to be occupied by a family or persons who are not engaged in agricultural pursuits on the premises or zoning lot. (Ord. 20062 § 14, 4-18-17.)
