The Topeka Landmarks Commission shall have the following functions:
(a) Administer the identification, documentation and designation of local historic landmarks and local historic districts.
(b) Determine whether certain buildings, structures, land areas, and interiors (only for local historic landmarks and with owner consent) should be designated as local historic landmarks or local historic districts.
(c) Administer certificate of appropriateness reviews according to design review guidelines to determine whether to grant or deny approval of proposed undertakings.
(d) Review and comment on projects which may pose a threat to a recorded archaeological site as designated by the City or the Kansas State Historical Office.
(e) May apply for or suggest sources of funds for preservation, acquisition, and restoration activities.
(f) May implement incentive programs for preservation.
(g) May recommend acquisition of historic assets to the Council.
(h) Review annually the status of designated local historic landmarks and local historic districts.
(i) Prepare and adopt a historic preservation plan as an element for inclusion in the City’s comprehensive plan and review and update the plan as needed. The plan may reference a list of historic assets.
(j) Implement a receivership program for conservation easement donations for the purpose of historic preservation. Such easements shall be held by the City and monitored by the Topeka Landmarks Commission.
(k) Recommend programs and legislation to the City Council to encourage historic preservation.
(l) Assist in the preparation of national and/or State register nominations, upon request of the property owner.
(m) Upon request of the property owner, render advice and provide guidance with respect to any proposed work on a historic asset.
(n) Adopt and implement design review guidelines for local historic landmarks and local historic districts.
(o) Review nominations of properties within the City proposed for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places.
(p) Create and maintain a list of individuals and organizations that request, in writing, to be advised of actions related to local historic landmarks and local historic districts.
(q) Provide a quarterly report to the Council listing approved and rejected certificates of appropriateness for local historic landmarks and local historic districts.
(r) Provide design review guidelines to owners of local historic landmarks and owners of property located within a local historic district. (Ord. 20206 § 80, 9-10-19; Ord. 19901 § 2, 5-6-14. Formerly 2.60.020.)
