Section 107.3, Prosecution of violation, is deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
(a) A person who fails to comply with a notice of violation served in accordance with Section 109.4, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if convicted, may be punished in accordance with subsection (b). A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a strict liability offense. Abatement of a violation by the Code Official shall not be a defense or excuse to a violation. The pendency of an administrative hearing pursuant to section 8.60.110 or section 8.75.040 shall not be a defense to a violation or prevent prosecution and adjudication in Municipal Court.
(b) Punishment for a violation of the International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC), adopted pursuant to TMC 8.60.010 , shall be as follows:
(1) Upon a first conviction, a fine of not more than one thousand dollars;
(2) Upon a second conviction, a fine of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than one thousand dollars;
(3) Upon a third conviction, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars nor more than one thousand dollars;
(4) Upon a fourth or subsequent conviction, a fine of not less than one thousand dollars nor more than two thousand five hundred dollars;
(5) In addition to the preceding fines such person may be punished by a term of imprisonment which shall not exceed six (6) months, or by both such fines and imprisonment.
(c) For the purposes of determining whether a conviction is a first or subsequent conviction in sentencing under this section:
(1) conviction includes being convicted of a violation of the IPMC, and it is irrelevant whether an offense occurred before or after conviction for a previous offense.
(2) conviction includes being convicted of a violation of the IPMC or entering into a diversion agreement in lieu of further criminal proceedings on a complaint alleging a violation of this section.
(3) any convictions occurring during the three years prior to the date of the occurrence shall be taken into account when determining the sentence to be imposed.
(d) Each day that any violation of this ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable hereunder as a separate violation.
(e) In addition to the penalties set forth above, the court may require that the owner register the property pursuant to Chapter 8.65 TMC.
Section 106.4, Violation penalties, is deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Administrative penalties.
(a) There shall be an administrative monetary penalty as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule imposed on the owner or, in the case of inoperative vehicles, the vehicle owner for each violation of this chapter that remains uncorrected after the time period stated in the notice of violation has elapsed.
(b) The administrative monetary penalty for a second or subsequent violation for which an administrative penalty has been imposed under this chapter that remains uncorrected after the time period stated in the notice of violation has elapsed for the same property within 12 months of the same or substantially same violation shall be as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule.
Section 106.5, Abatement of violations, is deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
(a) Abatement. Upon the expiration of the compliance period stated in the notice of violation, the Code Official shall inspect the property. The Code Official may grant an extension of time if the owner demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in abating the violation. If the owner has failed to comply within the compliance period or has failed to timely request an appeal hearing, the Code Official may abate the violation and assess the costs against the owner. If the costs are not paid within 30 days, the cost may be collected pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1,115 and amendments thereto and/or charged against the property pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1617e , K.S.A. 12-1617f , K.S.A. 12-1755 , or K.S.A. 17-4759 and amendments thereto.
(b) Fees. The costs incurred by the City for abatement, including any administrative costs, shall be paid by the owner or, in the case of inoperative vehicles, the vehicle owner. The administrative costs shall be as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule for the following:
General violations of the IPMC
Vegetation
Inoperative vehicles
General violations of the IPMC
Vegetation
Inoperative vehicles
(Ord. 20631 § 41, 1-13-26.)
