(a) City Employees. All employees must be bona fide residents of the State of Kansas and are encouraged to reside inside the City limits of the City of Topeka.
(b) Department Directors – Municipal Court Judges – City Manager. Department directors and municipal court judges must be bona fide residents of Shawnee County. The City Manager must be a bona fide resident of the City of Topeka.
(c) Residency – Defined. “Residency” is defined as the actual principal residence of the individual, where the individual normally eats and sleeps and maintains normal personal and household effects. Residency requirements must be established within one year of the employee’s date of hire. Documents that may be used to verify residency include, but are not limited to, voter registration card, proof of vehicle registration, property record card, property tax statement or valuation notice, executed rental agreement, and state issued identification cards showing proof of residency.
(d) Critical Response Positions. Employees employed in critical response time positions, or any others that require immediate physical presence on an as-needed basis, may be required to live within a fixed maximum response time from an identified point of report. Such a requirement shall be identified in the job description and will be a condition of employment. The amount of time allowed for the employee to establish such residence shall be established by the City Manager and provided to the employee in writing.
(e) Subsection (a) of this section shall expire on December 31, 2027. Any person employed after December 31, 2027, shall be required to be a bona fide resident of Shawnee County. Any person employed before December 31, 2027, shall not be required to be a bona fide resident of Shawnee County.
(f) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, the City Manager may waive the County residency requirement for a department director if: (1) the position remains unfilled after 60 days from the date the position or vacancy was posted on the City’s website; and (2) the Human Resources Director determines that removing the county residency requirement may facilitate filling the position. (Ord. 20370 § 1, 9-6-22.)
