(a) Allowed. Except as otherwise specifically provided in subsection (d) of this section, a person may own, keep, possess, harbor, buy, accept in trade, sell or offer for sale or trade any of the following animals within the City limits in compliance with applicable Federal, State and local laws; provided, however, that said animals are kept as pets:
(1) Amphibians.
(2) Birds.
(3) Cats.
(4) Dogs.
(5) Ferrets.
(6) Fish.
(7) Fowl.
(8) Livestock.
(9) Miniature pot-belly pigs.
(10) Rabbits.
(11) Reptiles.
(12) Rodents.
(13) Invertebrates.
(b) Sanitary Requirements. The owner of any animal(s) listed in subsection (a) of this section must ensure that all animals and animal quarters are in full conformance with the provisions of the nuisance ordinances of the City, kept in a clean and sanitary condition and maintained in a manner that limits objectionable odors; and must further ensure that all animals are maintained in quarters that are adequately constructed so as to prevent their escape. Any area(s) in which an animal(s) is allowed to roam should be cleaned of waste on a regular basis for purposes of preventing disease, accumulation of flies and the emission of objectionable odors. If an animal control officer determines that a particular odor would be considered objectionable to a reasonable, prudent person, this determination may be considered prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(c) Compliance. The owner of any animal(s) listed in subsection (a) of this section must ensure that said animal(s) is properly licensed if required by this title and is being kept in accordance with any applicable rule or regulation promulgated under the authority of Federal statute enacted by the United States, or by any statute enacted by the State, or by any rule or regulation promulgated by any agency or department as authorized by State statute.
(d) Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly own, keep, possess or harbor any of the following animals within the City limits:
(1) Venomous snakes and lizards.
(2) Nonvenomous snakes if eight feet or more in length.
(3) All species of monitor lizards.
(4) Cassowaries, emus, ostriches and rheas.
(5) Snapping turtles.
(6) Exotic or captive wild animals; except as otherwise provided in TMC 6.20.010(d) .
Upon conviction of a violation of this subsection (d), the judge of the Municipal Court of the City may order the owner, keeper, possessor or harborer to destroy or remove from the City any animal prohibited under this section. (Ord. 20106 § 7, 12-19-17.)
Cross References: Municipal Judge, TMC 2.20.060 ; Animal Control office, TMC 6.05.020 .
