Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the City of Topeka, including, but not limited to, the following places:
(a) Elevators.
(b) Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and any other common-use areas.
(c) Buses, bus terminals, taxicabs, train stations, the airport, and other facilities and means of public transit under the authority of the City of Topeka, as well as ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public transit depots.
(d) Service lines.
(e) Retail stores.
(f) All areas available to and customarily used by the general public in all businesses and nonprofit entities patronized by the public including, but not limited to, attorneys’ offices, and other offices, banks, laundromats, and hotels and motels in which at least 80 percent of the rooms are available for rent by guests.
(g) Food service establishments and licensed premises, excluding areas of a food service establishment or licensed premises that are not enclosed such as patios, outdoor dining areas, and courtyards.
(h) Within a 10-foot radius of any doorway, open window or air intake leading into a building or facility that is not exempted pursuant to TMC 8.20.070 .
(i) Galleries, libraries and museums.
(j) Any facility which is primarily used for exhibiting any motion picture, stage, drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance.
(k) Sports arenas and convention halls, including bowling facilities.
(l) Every room, chamber, place of meeting or public assembly, including school buildings, under the control of any board, council, commission, committee, including joint committees, or agencies of the City of Topeka or any political subdivision of the State to the extent such place is subject to the jurisdiction of the City of Topeka.
(m) Waiting rooms, hallways, wards and rooms of health care facilities, including, but not limited to, hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, physical therapy facilities, doctors’ offices, and dentists’ offices.
(n) Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings, condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other multiple-unit residential facilities.
(o) Polling places.
(p) Private clubs and fraternal organization facilities. (Ord. 19783 § 2, 12-18-12.)
