(a) Pursuant to K.S.A. 17-1902 and K.S.A. 12-2001 , and amendments thereto, and subject to the provisions of this Contract Franchise, MCImetro shall have the right to construct, maintain and operate its Facilities along, across, upon and under the public right-of-way. Such Facilities shall be so constructed and maintained as not to obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public safety on such public ways or obstruct the legal use by other utilities.
(b) MCImetro shall participate in the Kansas One Call utility location program.
(c) MCImetro may attach its Facilities to an existing City-owned utility pole pursuant to the current National Electric Safety Code.
(d) It is understood that MCImetro may build new Facilities in the City which would comply with all applicable Laws.
(e) MCImetro is required to obtain and is responsible for any necessary permit, license, certification, grant, registration or any other authorization required by any appropriate governmental entity, including but not limited to, the City, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or the Kansas Corporation Commission (KCC).
(f) The City will approve or deny any permit application by MCImetro no later than 30-days from submission of a complete application. Failure of the City to deny with reasonable specificity MCImetro’s application within 30-days will be considered approval of the application by the City. Pursuant to KSA 17-1902(n) , the City may require a reasonable, actual, and verifiable permit fee in order to compensate the City for the issuance, processing, and verification of the permit application; However, upon request of MCImetro the City shall provide in writing the basis for said costs within ten (10) days of said request.
(g) MCImetro will provide reasonable notice to the City for any new installation and give the City reasonable time to provide input on the placement/location of new Facilities.
(h) No notice is necessary to the City for Facility maintenance unless such maintenance will require street closure, and in such event, MCImetro will use reasonable efforts to coordinate such closure with the City.
(i) MCImetro shall be responsible for any damage, ordinary wear and tear excepted, to street pavement, existing facilities and utilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, landscaping, and all other public or private facilities, to the extent caused by MCImetro’s construction, installation, maintenance, access, use, repair, replacement, relocation, or removal of the Network in the City’s ROW. MCImetro shall promptly repair such damage and return the City’s ROW and any affected adjacent property to a safe and satisfactory condition to the City in accordance with the City’s applicable street restoration standards or to the property owner if not the City. MCImetro’s obligations under this section 3.i shall survive for one (1) year past the completion of such reparation and restoration work and return of the affected part of the City’s ROW by MCImetro to the City. (Ord. 20628 § 3, 1-13-26.)
