(a) Established. There is hereby established a Citizen Advisory Council (CAC) consisting of persons who value community and represent broad community interests, including neighborhood engagement, housing, and infrastructure.
(b) Purpose. The purpose of the CAC is to provide advice and recommendations to appropriate City departments/divisions, as well as the Governing Body, on allocation of City, County, State, Federal and Topeka housing trust funds.
(c) Members – Terms – Voting. The CAC shall consist of one member of each certified neighborhood improvement association (NIA) in addition to three at-large members. Each CAC member shall serve a three-year term, which shall begin in January.
(1) Certified NIA Members. Each certified NIA shall elect a member to serve as its representative on the CAC. An NIA may elect an alternate to represent the NIA in the event the NIA’s member cannot attend a CAC meeting, in which case the alternate may vote. An NIA may elect a substitute CAC representative to complete the unexpired term of the NIA’s representative member who is unable to complete the remainder of the term.
(2) At-Large Members. The three at-large members of the CAC shall be appointed by the Mayor, with confirmation by the City Council. At-large members shall not serve beyond the end of their appointed three-year term and, upon expiration of such term, the position shall remain vacant until a successor is appointed. One at-large member must come from a low to moderate income (LMI) area not represented by a certified NIA or be an LMI resident of Topeka who does not reside within the boundaries of a certified NIA or hold office in a certified NIA. Two at-large members must come from disciplines such as construction trades, architecture, appraising, real estate sales, public finance, mortgage lending, legal, real estate development, residential property management, commercial banking, construction material suppliers, fundraising, neighborhood planning, zoning, engineering, health or education.
(d) Meetings – Officers – Bylaws. At the November meeting of the CAC, the voting members will elect a chair and vice-chair, whose terms officially start in January, to conduct the meetings in accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order. The CAC chair may designate a CAC member as the group’s parliamentarian. The CAC chair, in consultation with the CAC vice-chair and Community Engagement Division staff, will prepare the agenda for each meeting. Community Engagement Division staff will create the meeting minutes, which shall be reviewed by the CAC chair and vice-chair prior to distribution. Community Engagement Division staff shall create and update contact information for CAC members, which shall include the NIA representative, NIA alternate and at-large appointees; maintain attendance records; and record and maintain minutes of each meeting. The CAC, in consultation with the Community Engagement Director, will conduct an annual review of the established bylaws and present any proposed revisions to the full membership for approval during the third quarter of each calendar year. The CAC will meet at a date, time and place determined by the CAC, which shall include both regular and special meetings. A quorum of the CAC shall consist of those voting members present, and a simple majority of voting members present shall decide any question. (Ord. 20329 § 1, 12-7-21. Formerly 2.105.040.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 ; boards, commissions and committees, TMC 2.205.010 et seq.
