(a) The provisions of TMC 10.75.130 shall not apply to any vehicle or combination of vehicles engaged in a one-time move, provided an excess size and weight move permit has been obtained from the Division of Engineering. Any person wishing to obtain an excess size and weight move permit shall submit the following information to the Division of Engineering at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled move:
(1) Company name;
(2) Business address;
(3) Width, height and length of load;
(4) Axle configuration including sketch showing dimension between each axle;
(5) Approximate total weight and load on each axle;
(6) State highway permit number if one is required;
(7) Proposed route of travel; and
(8) Any other information which may be necessary for review of the application by the Engineering Division.
(b) Upon receipt of the information required by subsection (a) of this section, the Engineering Division shall review the information and determine whether the move may be made over the proposed route without jeopardizing public safety and public infrastructure. If the Engineering Division determines that a load capacity analysis is required in order to evaluate the proposed route, the Engineering Division shall conduct the analysis or obtain the analysis from a consultant. Any cost involved in conducting or obtaining the analysis shall be the responsibility of the applicant regardless of whether an excess size and weight move permit is issued. Payment of the cost of analysis shall be made prior to issuance of the permit. If the Engineering Division determines the move may be made without jeopardizing public safety or public infrastructure, the Engineering Division shall issue an excess size and weight move permit. The Engineering Division may in issuing the permit establish conditions including but not limited to the use of a lead and chase car, maximum speed limits and police escort service. (Ord. 16542 § 1, 12-22-92. Code 1995 § 142-749.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
