“Cargo container or shipping container” means any portable, weather-resistant receptacle, container or other structure that is designed or used for the storage or shipment of household goods, commodities, building materials, furniture, or merchandise.
“Carport” means a roofed structure intended for the storage of motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides by walls.
“Cemetery” means property used for the interring of the dead.
“Certificate of occupancy” means official certification that a premises conforms to provisions of the zoning ordinance (and building code) and may be used or occupied.
“Class A club” means a premises which is owned or leased by a corporation, partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a bona fide nonprofit social, fraternal or war veteran’s club, as determined by the State of Kansas, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders, partners, trust beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as members), and their families and guests accompanying them.
“Class B club” means a premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership or individual, to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
“Classification” means: (1) division of uses or activities into groups or subgroups for regulatory purposes; (2) the process of deciding what uses should be permitted in what zoning districts; and (3) the zone requirements imposed on a particular piece of property. A subsequent change in a classification is called a reclassification.
“Clinic” means an establishment where patients are admitted for examination and treatment by one or more physicians, dentists, psychologists or social workers and where patients are not usually lodged overnight.
“Club or lodge, private” means a building and facilities owned, leased or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational or recreational purpose; but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business; and shall not include or be construed as a class A or class B club.
“Commercial equipment” means any equipment or machinery used in a business, trade or industry, including liquid storage tanks exceeding 100 gallons, earth-moving equipment, trenching or pipe-laying equipment, landscaping equipment, spools of wiring/cable, portable pumps, portable generators, portable air compressors, pipes, pool cleaning equipment and supplies, and any other equipment or machinery similar in design or function. However, equipment and machinery for business use kept within an enclosed pickup truck or van; ladders, PVC pipe, or conduit attached to a truck or van via a rack; or equipment and machinery solely for personal residential use are not included.
“Commercial vehicle” means any vehicle, excluding pickup trucks, used for a business that has a height (including ladder racks and other items attached thereto) exceeding a height of 10.5 feet or width (excluding mirrors) exceeding eight feet or length exceeding 25 feet or manufacturer’s rating exceeding 12,000 pounds of gross vehicle weight. Additionally, the following types of vehicles shall all be considered commercial vehicles: flatbed, stake-bed, or box trucks except those that are pickup trucks; buses, semi-trailers or tractor-trailers, dump trucks, cement mixers, wreckers, and trailers loaded with any commercial equipment or construction materials. Additionally, any vehicles, including pickup trucks, with any of the following exterior modifications shall be considered commercial vehicles: liquid storage tanks exceeding 100 gallons, aerial buckets or platforms, welding equipment, or mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading materials/equipment. Vehicles for transferring passengers and their personal luggage/cargo for churches, nonprofit agencies, nursing homes, retirement communities, and other similar facilities shall not be considered commercial vehicles. Recreational vehicles are not considered commercial vehicles unless used for business purposes.
“Common open space” means ground area and the space above, which is unimpeded by any enclosed building, and located within a development which is designed for and designated for the use and enjoyment of occupants of the development. Common open space areas may be used for: landscaping, water bodies, stormwater management systems, sidewalks, walking trails, courtyards, and passive recreational purposes. Parking lots and storage areas for vehicles, equipment, and material shall not be considered as open space.
“Communication antenna” means an antenna or array of antennas at one location intended to broadcast and receive signals as part of a wide-area communication system such as cellular telephone systems, pager systems or wireless computer networks, but excluding short-wave radio antennas operated primarily as a hobby.
“Communication tower” means a ground-mounted guyed, monopole or self-supporting tower, constructed as a freestanding structure or in association with a building, other permanent structure or equipment, containing one or more antennas intended for transmitting or receiving television, AM/FM radio, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone, or similar forms of electronic communication. Not included in this definition are: (1) small cell wireless facilities; and (2) towers which are held, used or controlled exclusively for public purposes by any department or branch of government. Such towers are defined as a “public use facility” and regulated accordingly.
“Community center” means a building open to the public, together with lawful accessory buildings and uses, used for recreational and cultural activities and usually not operated for profit.
“Community facilities” means public or privately owned facilities used by the public, such as streets, schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds; also facilities owned and operated by nonprofit private agencies such as churches, settlement houses and neighborhood associations.
“Community living facility, type I” means a dwelling building or portion thereof, and premises other than a hospital, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, in which short-term residential care for profit or not for profit is provided as well as supportive programs which assist or train the recipients to address or improve their living skills relative to chemical dependency, behavioral modification, domestic abuse, mental illness, economic recovery, job training, emergency shelter, and similar such physical, economic, or social reintegration programs. Although recipients do not require intensive treatment or secure environment, structured programs often include individual and group counseling, recreational and social activities, milieu therapy and individual work therapies designed to provide a transition and reentry into society, gainful employment, and sustained welfare upon leaving the facility. Residents are not in need of acute medical or psychiatric care and the facility is operated on a 24-hour basis. “Community living facility, type I” does not include a correctional placement residence or facility.
“Community living facility, type II” means a dwelling building or portion thereof, and premises other than a hospital, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, in which residential care for profit or not for profit is provided; intermediate treatment programs in a therapeutic setting for diagnostic and primary treatment environment relative to chemical dependency, behavioral modification, and mental illness and similar such physical and social treatment programs may be provided. Residents are not in need of acute medical or psychiatric care and the facility is operated on a 24-hour basis and may be operated as a secure facility. “Community living facility, type II” does not include a correctional placement residence or facility.
“Community service organization” means an organization, group or association formed for the single purpose of providing a philanthropic service for the community, but not to include any use which provides social or physical entertainment, except as a part of the philanthropic services.
“Compatibility” means the characteristics of different uses or activities that permit them to be located near each other in harmony and without conflict.
“Comprehensive plan” means a plan intended to guide the growth and development of a community or region and one that includes analysis, recommendations and proposals for the community’s population, economy, housing, transportation, community facilities and land use.
“Conditional use” means a use permitted in a particular zoning district only upon showing that such use in a specified location will comply with all the conditions and standards for the location or operation of such use as specified in a zoning ordinance and authorized by the Governing Body.
“Condominium” means the legal arrangement in which a dwelling unit in an apartment building or residential development or a retail or office unit in a commercial building or commercial development is individually owned but in which the common areas are owned, controlled and maintained through an organization consisting of all the individual owners.
“Construction and demolition waste” means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings, other structures and pavements.
“Contractor’s office” means a building or portion of a building used for conducting business related to construction, including interior shops with minor fabrication and assembly processes that have minimal off-site impacts.
“Contractor’s yard” means an outdoor storage area operated by a contractor for the storage of equipment, vehicles, and materials commonly used in the contractor’s type of business.
“Conversion” means the change of the use of an existing building into another use.
“Correctional facility” means a public use facility providing housing and care for individuals confined for violations of law. Typical uses include jails, prisons, and juvenile detention centers. A correctional facility does not include a correctional placement residence or facility, general, or a correctional placement residence or facility, limited.
“Correctional placement residence or facility” means a facility for individuals or offenders that provides residential and/or rehabilitation services for those who reside or have been placed in such facilities due to any one of the following situations: (1) prior to, or instead of, being sent to prison; (2) received a conditional release prior to a hearing; (3) as a part of a local sentence of not more than one year; (4) at or near the end of a prison sentence, such as a state-operated or franchised work release program, or a privately operated facility housing parolees; or (5) received a deferred sentence and placed in a facility operated by community corrections. Such facilities will comply with the regulatory requirements of a Federal, State or local government agency; and if such facilities are not directly operated by a unit of government they will meet licensure requirements that further specify minimum service standards.
“Correctional placement residence or facility, general” means a facility occupied by more than 15 individuals, including staff members who may reside there.
“Correctional placement residence or facility, limited” means a facility occupied by three to 15 individuals, including staff members who may reside there.
“Country club” means a land use consisting of both a golf course and a clubhouse building for social assembly, food and beverage preparation/service, pro shop, club office, recreational and physical exercise facilities including fitness center, spa, swimming pool, court games, locker and shower facilities; and vehicle parking areas and drives. Country club facilities are open to members and their guests for a membership fee.
“Court” means an open space which may or may not have street access, and around which is arranged a single building or group of related buildings.
“Court, inner” means that portion of a lot unoccupied by any part of a building, surrounded on all sides by walls or by walls and a lot line.
“Court, outer” means that portion of a lot unoccupied by any part of a building, opening onto a street, alley, or yard.
“Crisis center, type I” means a facility or portion thereof and premises which is used for purposes of emergency shelter, crisis intervention, including counseling, referral, hotline response, and similar human social service functions. Said facility shall not include meal preparation, except for residents of the center, distribution, or service; merchandise distribution; or shelter, including boarding, lodging, or residential care.
“Crisis center, type II” means a facility or portion thereof and premises which is used for purposes of emergency shelter, crisis intervention, including counseling, referral, hotline response, and similar human social service functions; meal preparation, distribution, and service; merchandise distribution; and temporary and/or transient shelter, including boarding and lodging facilities.
“Cultural facilities” means establishments such as museums, libraries, art galleries, botanical and zoological gardens of a historic, educational or cultural interest which are not operated commercially. (Ord. 20222 § 1, 11-19-19.)
