The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
“Angle or diagonal parking” means the standing or parking of a motor vehicle on a public street with the long axis of the vehicle extending away from the street curb or roadway edge, and with the front of the vehicle away from the center of the street or roadway.
“Central business district” means that area bounded by Tyler Street, Madison Street, Second Street, and Huntoon Street.
“Parallel parking” means:
(1) On streets with curbs, the standing or parking of the vehicle with the righthand wheels thereof parallel and within 12 inches of the righthand curb or roadway edge, subject to the exceptions permitting left side parallel parking as provided in this title.
(2) On streets without curbs, the standing or parking of a motor vehicle with the righthand wheels thereof parallel with the right edge of the roadway so that at least 20 feet of the width of the roadway remains for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
“Street parking” means that portion of a street between the curb or lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent lot lines not occupied by a sidewalk.
“Traffic Division” means the Traffic Division of the City Police Department created by ordinance or such other unit of the Police Department as is designated functions under this title.
“Traffic Engineer” means the Traffic Engineer of the City or any person designated by the Public Works Director or designee for the purpose of implementing and enforcing ordinances of the City relating to traffic.
“Transportation Operations Division” means that division within the Public Works Department which has responsibility for street maintenance, traffic operations and on-street and off-street parking.
“Transportation Operations Superintendent” means the Public Works Director or designee.
“Vehicle” as used in TMC 10.25.010(b) means any vehicle propelled by power other than human power, designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, tread, runners or slides, and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and wagons.
Zones.
(1) “Curb loading zone” means a space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
(2) “No parking zones” means portions of streets designated by the Transportation Operations Superintendent as zones within which parking is prohibited at all times or at stated times when signposted.
(3) “No standing zones” means portions of streets designated by the Transportation Operations Superintendent as zones within which standing or stopping is prohibited at all times or at stated times when signposted.
(4) “Passenger curb loading zone” means a place adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
(5) “Safety zone” means the area of space officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone.
(6) “Time-restricted parking zones” means portions of streets designated by the Transportation Operations Superintendent as zones within which the parking of vehicles is controlled and regulated by parking meters, pay stations or other methods.
Words and phrases not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to them by the laws of the State relating to motor vehicles. (Ord. 20566 § 1, 6-10-25.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
State Law References: Definitions applicable to Traffic Act, K.S.A. 8-1401 et seq.
