(a) Any construction company who wishes to operate a temporary batch plant in conjunction with highway construction or construction of a major arterial street shall first make application for a temporary batch plant permit to the Code Enforcement Director. The application shall contain the following information:
(1) Name and business address of the construction company.
(2) The highway or major arterial street project, designated by location and project number.
(3) A map of the proposed site of the temporary batch plant including material storage. The map shall be drawn to scale and shall show the proposed site in relationship to the limits of construction. For purposes of this article, “site” shall be considered to be the geographical area proposed for the batch plant and material storage.
(4) Statement of the approximate duration of the temporary batch plant.
(5) Type of construction material to be assembled at the batch plant.
(6) Any other information deemed pertinent by the Code Enforcement Director.
(b) Upon receipt of the application, the Code Enforcement Director shall review the application. The Code Enforcement Director shall also consult with the City Engineer and Traffic Engineer. The review shall include the following criteria:
(1) The site of the proposed batch plant is not within 400 feet of any inhabited residential property.
(2) The site of the proposed batch plant is not within 250 feet of any commercial structures and/or buildings.
(3) The site of the proposed batch plant has adequate ingress/egress.
(4) Operation of a batch plant at the proposed site will not endanger the public safety.
(5) Evidence satisfactory to the Code Enforcement Director that the site will be returned to its original condition by the expiration date of the permit.
(c) If the Code Enforcement Director finds the application meets the criteria stated in this section, a permit for the batch plant shall be issued. The permit shall contain an expiration date and shall not be transferable to any other construction company or individual. Further, the permit shall be limited to a specific construction project which is identified by project number and shall not be transferable to any other construction project. (Code 1981 § 40-401. Code 1995 § 130-126.)
Cross References: City Engineer, TMC 2.20.100 ; Traffic Engineer, TMC 10.10.010 .
