(a) Window Signs.
(1) Definitions.
(i) Window Sign. A window sign is a sign posted, painted, placed, or affixed to the inside or outside of a window, and does not extend a measurable distance beyond a building surface, but is clearly visible from outside the building.
(2) Standards. Window signs are permitted in all districts subject to the following standards:
(i) In C-2, C-3, C-4, I-1, I-2, X-1, X-2, X-3, D-1, and D-3 districts window signs in the aggregate shall constitute no more than 50 percent of the area of all windows for each tenant and for each side of the building on which the window signs are located.
(ii) For residential uses in the R, M-1, M-1a, and RR-1 districts the aggregate of all window signs shall not exceed eight square feet on each side of the building.
(iii) For residential uses in the M-2 and M-3 districts the aggregate of all window signs shall not exceed five percent of the area of all windows. No single window sign shall exceed 25 square feet.
(iv) In all other districts and for nonresidential uses in R, M-1, M-1a, and OS-1 districts, window signs in the aggregate shall constitute no more than 20 percent of the area of all windows for each tenant and for each side of the building on which the window signs are located.
(b) Painted Exterior Wall Signs.
(1) Definitions.
(i) Painted Exterior Wall Signs. A painted exterior wall sign identifies a use or on-premises establishment and consists entirely of copy that is painted directly on, or digitally printed vinyl applied to, the exterior material of a building, not including the exterior surface of a window, awnings, or other appurtenances.
(2) Painted exterior wall signs are permitted in C-2, C-3, C-4, I-1, I-2, X-1, X-2, X-3, D-1, and D-3 districts. Any painted exterior wall sign applied to the front or side of a building directly facing a street shall be regulated in the same manner as a wall sign. Any painted exterior wall sign applied to the side or rear of a building that does not directly abut a street is permitted provided the area of all such signs does not exceed 300 square feet on the wall on which the signage is applied. In determining the number of square feet, only text or logos pertaining to the business, industry, or activity conducted on or within the premises shall be included. Art and graphic representations associated with the painted exterior wall sign that are not text or logos shall not be subject to the area restriction.
(c) Sign Standards for Nonconforming Commercial Uses and Uses Permitted by Special Use Permit in Residential and OS&I Districts. Signs for nonresidential, nonconforming uses and uses permitted by special use permit in residential and open space districts (R, RR, M, and OS districts) are regulated in the same manner as signs for other nonresidential uses in residential districts with the following exceptions:
(1) EMCs are prohibited for nonconforming uses in R, RR, M, and OS districts. EMCs are permitted for special uses only if allowed by the special use permit or by an amended special use permit approved as a conditional use permit.
(2) The Planning and Development Director may restrict sign illumination, by intensity, area of illumination, or other measure, on sites or buildings adjacent to property zoned or used for residential use.
(d) Residential Subdivision Signs.
(1) Each residential subdivision containing six or more residential lots is allowed two monument signs per public or private street entrance into the subdivision. Each sign shall not exceed a height of seven feet and area of 40 square feet when sign is oriented to a local street or collector; height of 10 feet and area of 50 square feet when sign is oriented to an arterial.
(2) A residential subdivision sign may be incorporated into a wall, fence, or other structure.
(3) A residential subdivision sign may be located in the public right-of-way only if expressly approved by the Planning and Development Director.
(e) Historic Signs. For the purposes of this chapter, a historic sign is a sign that is listed or determined to be eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, Kansas Register of Historic Places, or as a Topeka landmark, or a sign that contributes to the historic character of a listed property. The alteration or relocation of a historic sign, upon approval by the Topeka Landmarks Commission, is exempt from this chapter, except for TMC 18.10.090 .
(f) Pole Banners. Decorative banners are exempt from the maximum number, dimensions, and location requirements of TMC 18.10.130 if they are: (1) mounted on a pole that provides a separate functional purpose such as street lighting in the right-of-way; (2) contain no commercial message or advertising or other elements of a “sign” as defined in this chapter; and (3) are allowed by the City in the right-of-way. (Ord. 20207 § 16, 9-10-19.)
