Located within the areas of special flood hazard as described in TMC 17.30.070 are areas designated as AO and AH zones. The following provisions apply:
(a) AO Zones. These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate.
(1) All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures, including manufactured or mobile homes, shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified) plus one foot of freeboard. Mechanical and HVAC equipment shall be protected to the same level as the lowest floor.
(2) All new construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structures, including manufactured or mobile homes, shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified) plus one foot of freeboard or together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities shall be completely floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Mechanical and HVAC equipment shall be flood protected or elevated to the same freeboard level.
(3) Adequate drainage paths shall be required around structures on slopes, in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(b) AH Zones.
(1) The specific standards for all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation has been provided shall be required as set forth in TMC 17.30.180 and 17.30.190 .
(2) Adequate drainage paths shall be required around structures on slopes, in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 20425 § 12, 6-20-23.)
