(a) The initial Advisory Board shall be comprised of seven members appointed by the Topeka Lodging Association and consisting of five representatives from hotels and two individuals who represent the travel and tourism industry. The members shall serve a term of office commencing on the date of appointment and expiring on December 31, 2017.
(b) On and after January 1, 2018, the Advisory Board shall be comprised of seven members to be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Council. Five members shall be representatives from hotels that are current in the payment of their service fees. Two members shall be representatives from the travel and tourism industry.
(c) The Topeka Lodging Association may submit a list of nominees to the Mayor. If a nominee is not appointed by the Mayor, with consent of the Council, the Association may submit additional name(s) for consideration. If the Association fails to provide a nominee(s), the Mayor may appoint, with the consent of the Council, a person who meets the requirements in subsection (b) of this section.
(d) Of the members appointed to the Advisory Board, four shall be appointed for a term of two years commencing on January 1, 2018, and three shall be appointed for a term of one year commencing on January 1, 2018. Members shall not serve beyond the end of their appointed terms. Upon expiration of a term, the position shall remain vacant until a successor is appointed. On the expiration of the term of each Board member, subsequent terms shall be for a period of two years. Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Advisory Board shall be filled by nominations from the Topeka Lodging Association pursuant to subsection (c) of this section and appointment of the Mayor with the consent of the City Council for the unexpired term.
(e) The Advisory Board shall, pursuant to K.S.A 12-1790 and amendments thereto and not later than May 15th of each year, submit to the Governing Body a recommended program of services to be performed or provided within the district during the following calendar year and a proposed budget to accomplish these objectives. (Ord. 20064 § 4, 5-9-17.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; boards and commissions, Chapter 2.205 TMC.
