Section R404, FOUNDATION AND RETAINING WALLS, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
FOUNDATION WALLS
R404.1 Concrete foundation walls. Concrete foundation walls that support light-frame walls shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
R404.1.1 Walls eight feet in height. Foundation walls eight feet (8') or less in height shall be constructed using the following criteria:
1. Minimum width: Eight inches (8") supporting two (2) floors or less and ten inches (10") supporting three (3) floors.
2. Vertical reinforcing: Number four (#4) bars at twenty-four inches (24 in.) on center placed on the inner third (3rd) of the wall but not closer than one and one half inches (1-1/2") to the edge.
3. Horizontal reinforcing: Number four (#4) bars placed in the following manner:
First (1st) bar, three feet (3') above footing.
Second (2nd) bar, five feet (5') above footing.
Third (3rd) and fourth (4th) bars in the upper twelve inches (12") of the wall at least two inches (2") apart with three inches (3") of coverage.
R404.1.2 Walls nine feet in height. Foundation walls nine feet (9') in height shall be constructed per City of Topeka design specifications for nine foot walls. Two approved designs are on file at this time. Approved engineered sealed designs are also allowed.
R404.1.3 Walls exceeding nine feet in height. Engineered sealed designs are required for all foundation walls exceeding nine feet (9') in height.
R404.1.4 Consolidation of Concrete. Consolidation of concrete. Concrete shall be consolidated by suitable means during placement and shall be worked around embedded items and reinforcement and into corners of forms. Where stay-in-place forms are used, concrete shall be consolidated by internal vibration.
R404.1.5 Form Materials and form ties. Form materials and form ties. Forms shall be made of wood, steel, aluminum, plastic, a composite of cement and foam insulation, a composite of cement and wood chips, or other approved material suitable for supporting and containing concrete. Forms shall provide sufficient strength to contain concrete during the concrete placement operation.
Form ties shall be steel, solid plastic, foam plastic, a composite of cement and wood chips, a composite of cement and foam plastic, or other suitable material capable of resisting the forces created by fluid pressure of fresh concrete.
404.1.5.1 Stay-in-place forms. Stay-in-place concrete forms shall comply with this section.
1. Surface burning characteristics. The flame-spread index and smoke-developed index of forming material, other than foam plastic, left exposed on the interior shall comply with Section 302. The surface burning characteristics of foam plastic used in insulating concrete forms shall comply with Section 316.3.
2. Interior covering. Stay-in-place forms constructed of rigid foam plastic shall be protected on the interior of the building as required by Section 316. Where gypsum board is used to protect the foam plastic, it shall be installed with a mechanical fastening system. Use of adhesives in addition to mechanical fasteners is permitted.
3. Exterior wall covering. Stay-in-place forms constructed of rigid foam plastics shall be protected from sunlight and physical damage by the application of an approved exterior wall covering complying with this code. Exterior surfaces of other stay-in-place forming systems shall be protected in accordance with this code.
4. Termite protection. In areas where the probability of termite infestation is “very heavy” as indicated by Table 301.2(1) or Figure 301.2(7), foam plastic insulation shall be permitted below grade on foundation walls in accordance with Section 318.4.
5. Flat ICF wall system forms shall conform to ASTM E2634.
R404.2 General requirements. The following requirements shall be met for all foundation walls:
1. Reinforcing bars to be bent continuous around corners.
2. Lapping of bars shall be a minimum of forty (40) bar diameters and wire tied.
3. Horizontal bars shall be wired in place prior to pouring of concrete.
4. Where unstable soil conditions exist an engineer shall design the footing and foundation based upon a soil report.
5. Concrete and masonry foundation walls shall extend above the finish grade adjacent to the foundation at all points a minimum of four inches (4") where masonry veneer is used and a minimum of eight inches (8") elsewhere.
R404.3 Wood sill plates. Wood sill plates shall be a minimum of 2-inch by 4-inch (51 mm by 102 mm) nominal lumber. Sill plate anchorage shall be in accordance with Sections R403.1.6 and R602.11.
(Ord. 20467 § 28, 12-5-23.)
