(a) Duties of Drivers in a Funeral Procession.
(1) Every driver in a funeral procession shall be able to produce, upon request, the permit issued by Shawnee County to operate authorized emergency vehicles pursuant to K.S.A. 8-2010 .
(2) Every driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicles ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(3) The driver of every vehicle in a funeral procession shall illuminate the headlights of such vehicle to identify it as part of the procession.
(4) The driver of every vehicle in a funeral procession shall yield the right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle emitting an audible siren and/or flashing lights and shall yield the right-of-way when directed to do so by law enforcement personnel.
(b) Duties of Drivers of Other Vehicles.
(1) On the immediate approach of a funeral procession or a properly lighted escort vehicle in a funeral procession, the driver of every other vehicle except for emergency vehicles emitting an audible siren and/or flashing emergency lights proceeding in the same direction as the procession shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the procession and the escort vehicle have passed.
(2) Except for emergency vehicles emitting an audible siren and/or flashing emergency lights, no driver of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles in the procession are identified with illuminated headlights.
(c) Yield Right-of-Way to Funeral Procession. When following a properly lighted escort vehicle in a funeral procession, vehicles with illuminated headlights shall have the right-of-way at any intersection but shall yield the right-of-way to emergency vehicles emitting an audible siren and/or flashing emergency lights. No driver in a funeral procession shall enter a controlled intersection until directed to do so by the driver of the escort vehicle in the procession. The drivers of vehicles in the funeral procession may proceed into or through any uncontrolled intersection after exercising due care and caution as may be necessary for the safe operation of their vehicles.
(d) Speed Limit.
(1) A driver of a properly licensed and equipped escort vehicle in a funeral procession may exceed the speed limits of the City so long as he does not endanger life or property.
(2) No driver of any vehicle in a funeral procession other than an escort vehicle as described in subsection (d)(1) of this section shall exceed the posted speed limits of the City at any time.
(e) Unescorted Processions. A driver of a vehicle in a funeral procession unescorted by a funeral escort properly licensed under this Code shall observe all traffic laws and regulations of the City at all times, including stopping at a red or stop signal or stop sign. (Ord. 20299 § 86, 6-1-21.)
Cross References: Funeral escort services, TMC 10.45.010 et seq.
State Law References: Authority to regulate processions, K.S.A. 8-2002(a)(3) .
