“Basement” means a story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story where more than one-half of its height is above the average finished grade.
“Block” means a piece of land usually bounded on all sides by streets or other transportation routes such as railroad lines, or by physical barriers such as water bodies or public open space, and not traversed by a through street.
“Boarding house” means any dwelling where for compensation and by prearrangement lodging with or without food is provided for three or more persons but not exceeding 20 persons in contradiction to hotels. No personal care is provided.
“Brew pub” means an eating and drinking establishment that includes a micro-brewery as an accessory use. The micro-brewery is limited to 5,000 barrels per year, which is equivalent to 155,000 gallons per year.
“Buildable area” means the space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open-space requirements (coverage, yards and setbacks) have been met.
“Building” means any roofed structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind; and when separated by dividing walls without openings, each portion of such building, so separated, shall be deemed a separate building.
“Building code” means the International Building Code, as adopted in Chapter 14.20 TMC.
“Building coverage” means the percent of the lot area covered by the maximum horizontal cross-sections of all buildings on the lot. Portions of buildings below the finished lot grade, such as storm shelters, shall not be included in building coverage.
“Building, detached” means a building having no party wall in common with another building.
Building Line. See “building setback line.”
“Building, principal” means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated.
“Building setback line” means the required distance of open space between a building and a lot line.
“Bulk” is the term used to describe the size of buildings or other structures, and their relationships to each other and to open areas and lot lines, and therefore includes: (1) the size of buildings or other structures, (2) the area of the zoning lot upon which a residential building is located, and the number of dwelling units or rooms within such building in relation to the area of the zoning lot, (3) the shape of buildings or other structures, (4) the location of exterior walls of buildings or other structures in relation to lot lines, to other walls of the same building, to legally required windows, or to other buildings or other structures, and (5) all open areas relating to buildings or other structures and their relationship thereto.
“Bulk regulations” means the combination of controls which established the maximum size of a building and its location on the lot. Components of bulk regulations include: size and height of building; location of exterior walls at all levels with respect to lot lines, streets, or other buildings; building coverage; gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area ratio); open space (yard) requirements; and amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
“Business” or “business use” means employment of one or more persons for the purpose of earning a livelihood, activities of persons to improve their economic conditions and desires, and generally relate to commercial and industrial engagements. (Ord. 20283 § 1, 3-2-21.)
