That the Commission shall be authorized to perform the following functions pursuant and subject to power and authority granted or contained herein under authority granted by the Act:
(a) To acquire a site or sites within the area bounded by SW MacVicar Avenue on the west, SE Adams Street on the east, 21st Street on the south, and the Kansas River on the north for constructing, reconstructing, equipping and furnishing a building or buildings or other facilities, including the designs and engineering thereof, of a revenue-producing character, including parking facilities, and, in addition, to acquire and install equipment of a revenue-producing character. The Commission is to provide facilities of a revenue-producing character to house offices or agencies of the State of Kansas, City, County, municipal university, or a school district. The Commission may also provide parking facilities for offices of State and Federal agencies as authorized by the City of Topeka City Council. Such building or buildings, facilities or equipment shall be maintained and operated for the affairs of the City, or any Federal, State, State or municipal university, City school district, municipal corporation, quasi-municipal corporation, political subdivision, or body politic, or agency thereof, doing business, maintaining an office, or rendering a public service within the City (“governmental agencies”). The Commission shall require that wages paid to workers, laborers, and mechanics employed by a contractor or subcontractor on these construction and reconstruction projects be not less than the current prevailing per diem wage rate. The requirement that prevailing wages be paid shall be interpreted as though synonymous with required wages and benefits paid in Shawnee County to the greater number of workers, laborers, and mechanics in the same trade, occupation or work of a similar nature during the one-year period before the start of the project.
(b) To adopt a seal.
(c) To acquire fee simple title to real estate, or a leasehold interest in real property located on the campus of any State university or any municipal university, including easement and reversionary interests in streets, alleys and other public places and personal property required for its purposes, by purchase, gift, devise or by the exercise of the power of eminent domain, and to take title in the corporate name of the Commission.
(d) To rent all or any part of its buildings, facilities and/or equipment to any governmental agencies and rent any space as may not be needed by such governmental agencies or such buildings or other facilities as the Commission may determine will primarily serve the comfort and convenience of the occupants of its buildings or other facilities.
(e) To issue revenue bonds of the Commission after negotiation of a lease or leases with one or more governmental agencies is complete, to provide funds for the purpose of acquiring, designing, engineering, erecting, equipping, repairing, maintaining and operating buildings and other facilities, to acquire sites necessary and convenient therefor, and to acquire and install equipment to pay all costs and expenses incident thereto, or to refund its outstanding bonds.
(f) To sue and be sued.
(g) To convey title to the governmental agencies to the equipment and/or land and buildings thereof, for whose benefit the Commission has held title, after the payment of revenue bonds issued for the purpose of acquiring such equipment and/or land and buildings thereof for the benefit of any such political subdivision. Conveyance may be made of portions of the land as portions of the revenue bonds are paid or retired, or provision is made for their payment to the deposit of a like amount of money.
(h) To do all things and acts necessary or incidental to the exercise of the powers granted to it under this chapter and under K.S.A. 12-1757 et seq., as amended.
(i) Any lease agreement entered into by the Commission for a project under the provisions of the Act may include a payment in lieu of taxes.
(j) For administrative purposes, the Topeka Public Building Commission shall be located within the office of the City Manager. The City Manager shall provide support on behalf of the Topeka Public Building Commission consistent with the purposes established herein, including but not limited to hiring and retaining support staff, legal representation, bond counsel, consultants, developers, and others as necessary for the performance of the functions and purposes of the Commission. Any reasonable expenses to be incurred in providing services to the Commission shall be reimbursed by the tenant of the Commission, provided the expenses are approved in advance by the tenant. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(k) The Commission shall substantially comply with City procurement ordinances or State procurement statutes. (Ord. 20206 § 82, 9-10-19; Ord. 19847 § 1, 9-10-13. Formerly 2.70.030.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
