(a) Membership Generally. The Sustainability Advisory Board shall consist of nine members.
(b) Terms. Of the members of the Board first appointed, four members shall serve one-year terms, and five members shall serve two-year terms. The Mayor with the consent of the City Council shall determine the terms of each appointed member. Persons appointed to the Board may be reappointed for additional two-year terms. After the initial appointment of the Board, all members shall serve two-year terms unless appointed to fill out an unexpired term.
(c) Qualifications of Members. At least five of the nine Board members shall be currently licensed, have a degree in, be engaged in, or have substantial past experience in the fields of environmental assessment, waste reduction, recycling, energy conservation and/or natural resource conservation or a similar field relating to the environment or conservation.
(d) Compensation, Removal. Members appointed to the Board shall serve without compensation. Members may be removed without cause by a vote of two-thirds majority of the Council. Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the Council. Removal for cause shall include but not be limited to the following reasons: failure to attend four Board meetings in one calendar year or failure to attend three consecutive Board meetings in one calendar year. In the case of death, incapacity, resignation or disqualification of any member of the Board, the Mayor, with consent of the City Council, shall appoint another person to serve for the unexpired term of the deceased, incapacitated, resigned or disqualified member in accordance with TMC 2.205.010 .
(e) Ex Officio Nonvoting Members. In addition to the nine voting Board members, there shall be two ex officio nonvoting members who shall be the City Attorney and the Public Works Director or their designees. (Ord. 20206 § 85, 9-10-19; Ord. 19791 § 1, 2-5-13. Formerly 2.95.020.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; City Attorney, TMC 2.20.070 ; Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
