(a) Method of Service. Notice shall be served in one of the following manners:
(1) Personal service; residence service. Delivering the notice to the owner or leaving the notice at the owner’s dwelling or usual place of abode with someone of suitable age and discretion who resides there.
(2) Personal service; residence service unsuccessful. If personal or residence service cannot be made, service may be effected by (i) leaving a copy of the notice at the owner’s dwelling or usual place of abode; and (ii) mailing to the owner by first-class mail a notice that the copy has been left at the dwelling or usual place of abode.
(3) Personal service; legal entity. If the owner is a legal entity, service may be effected as follows:
(i) Serving the notice on an officer, manager, partner or a resident, managing or general agent;
(ii) Leaving a copy of the notice at any business office with the person having charge of the office; or
(iii) Serving the notice on any agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of process.
(4) Certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the owner as reflected in the records of the County Appraiser.
(5) Delivery failure. If the owner or the owner’s agent has failed to accept delivery of notice or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of notice during the preceding 24-month period, notice may be provided by other methods, including but not limited to door hangers, conspicuously posting notice on the property, personal notification, telephone communication, electronic communication, or first-class mail.
(6) In addition to the methods identified in this section, but not in lieu of, the Code Official may provide notice by other methods, including, but not limited to, door hangers, conspicuously posting notice on the property, personal notification, telephone or electronic communication, or first-class mail.
(b) Proof of Service. Proof of service of the notice shall be certified at the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the person effecting service, declaring the time, date and manner in which service was made. (Ord. 20502 § 5, 7-30-24.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
