“Laboratory” means an establishment devoted to the testing and analysis of any product or animal (including humans). No manufacturing is conducted on the premises except for experimental or testing purposes.
“Laboratory, medical” means an establishment which provides bacteriological, biological, medical, X-ray, pathological and other similar analytical or diagnostic services. Fabrication is limited to the custom fabrication of dentures, optical lenses, braces or other orthopedic appliances.
“Labor pool” means an agency that provides manual laborers who work by the day for daily wages.
“Landfill, demolition” means a facility for the disposition of construction/demolition wastes, including yard and wood waste recycling, which are transported to a permitted disposal area from an off-site source, and disposing of said wastes without creating nuisances or hazards to the public health or safety of the environment.
“Landfill, sanitary” means a method of disposing of refuse/solid wastes on land without creating nuisances or hazards to the public health or safety of the environment at a permitted solid waste disposal area which meets the standards prescribed by the State or local unit of government.
“Landscaped area” means an area that is permanently devoted and maintained for the growing of trees, shrubbery, grass and/or other plant material.
“Landscaping” means the improvement of land by planting or installing living materials such as trees, shrubs, and ground cover; nonliving materials such as rocks, pebbles, bark, mulches, brick pavers, and earthen mounds (excluding pavement); and items of a decorative or embellishment nature such as fountains, pools, fencing, park benches, and sculptures. Landscaping provides screening between adjoining land uses and shade, softens building lines, and produces a visually pleasing effect of the premises.
“Land use plan” means a basic element of a comprehensive plan; it designates the future use or reuse of the land within a given jurisdiction’s planning area, and the policies and reasoning used in arriving at the decisions in the plan.
“Lattice tower” means a guyed or self-supporting three- or four-sided, open, steel frame structure used to support telecommunications equipment.
“Laundromat (self-service)” means an establishment providing washing, drying and/or dry cleaning machines on the premises for rental use to the general public for family laundering or dry cleaning purposes.
“Laundry (commercial)” means an establishment where commercial laundry and/or dry cleaning work is undertaken.
“Library” means a place in which books, manuscripts, musical scores or other literary and artistic materials are kept for use and only incidentally for sale.
“Little free libraries” are structures for the storage of books or other nonperishable items made available to the general public for no remuneration, and which may be located on private property in a structure or receptacle of a limited size and volume.
“Loading space” means an off-street space for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
“Lot” means an area of land delineated on a subdivision plat as a separate and distinct parcel of land intended for the purpose of transfer of ownership and for an individual building or use.
“Lot area” means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
“Lot-by-lot development” means the conventional approach to development in which each lot is treated as a separate development unit conforming to all land use, density, and bulk requirements.
“Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
“Lot coverage” means the percentage of a lot covered by parking lots, paved areas used for storing equipment or materials, loading/unloading areas, and buildings excluding their projecting roof eaves. Lot coverage does not include sidewalks, courtyards, landscaped areas, water bodies, and outdoor recreational areas such as pools and tennis courts.
“Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
“Lot, double frontage” means a lot having a frontage on two nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
“Lot frontage” means the length of the front lot line measured at the street right-of-way line.
“Lot, interior” means any lot other than a corner lot or a double-frontage lot.
“Lot line, front” means the line separating the lot from the street.
“Lot line, rear” means the line that is opposite from the front lot line; or in the case of a corner lot it shall be the line opposite from one of the two front lot lines as determined pursuant to TMC 18.230.030 and shall be indicated on the site plan submitted by the property owner or general contractor for a building permit. Where the lot is irregularly shaped, the rear lot line shall be a line perpendicular to the mean direction of the side lot lines.
“Lot line, side” means any lot line other than a front lot line or a rear lot line.
“Lot lines” means the lines bounding a lot.
“Lot of record” means a lot which is part of a recorded subdivision plat or a parcel of land which has been recorded in the office of the Shawnee County Register of Deeds in accordance with the City of Topeka subdivision regulations in effect at the time of the lot’s creation.
“Lot, reversed corner” means a corner lot, the rear of which abuts the side of another lot.
“Lot width” means the distance between the side lot lines, measured along the setback line as established by this division or, if no setback line is established, the distance between the side lot lines measured along the street line. (Ord. 20062 § 11, 4-18-17.)
