(a) No person shall abandon any vehicle on any street or highway or on any other public property within the City and no person shall leave any vehicle at or on any such place within the City for such times and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicles reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(b) No person shall abandon in any manner any vehicle, as defined in subsection (d) of this section, on any private property within the City which the person is not lawfully entitled to so use; and no person shall leave any vehicle at or on any such place within the City for such times and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicles reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(c) No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or highway or other public property within the City.
(d) An “abandoned vehicle” is a vehicle which:
(1) Remains on the streets or other public property for more than 48 hours;
(2) Has been impounded by the Police Department under authority of any vehicle traffic ordinance and which remains unclaimed after 48 hours;
(3) Remains on private property for more than 48 hours following notification to remove the vehicle to the owner or person in charge of such vehicle by the owner or person in possession of the private property;
(4) Remains on private property for more than 48 hours following the posting of a notice in a conspicuous place therein or thereon ordering immediate removal of the vehicle by the owner or person entitled to possession of the private property, regardless of whether the vehicle was lawfully placed on the private property initially;
(5) Is parked or placed in the driveway or other regular place of ingress or egress of a particular private property, regardless of the length of time the vehicle is so situated;
(6) Is placed or parked on any private lot or parcel of ground which is posted or designated as a lot or parcel of ground for public automobile parking for hire, or as reserved space for the parking of automobiles of persons who have special permission for such use, and the vehicle is so parked or placed without payment of the required fee therefor or otherwise placed or parked in violation of or contrary to the posting or designation described in this section, regardless of the length of time the vehicle is so situated;
(7) Is found stopped, standing, or parked in a tow away zone, regardless of the length of time the vehicle is so situated; or
(8) Is found stopped, standing, or parked in a tow away zone or fire lane on private property, regardless of the length of time the vehicle is so situated.
(9) In addition to law enforcement officers, property maintenance inspectors shall also have the authority to issue a uniform complaint and notice to appear for violations of subsections (a) through (d) of this section, as provided in TMC 2.40.130 and 2.40.210 .
(e)
(1) The Chief of Police may designate tow away no parking zones subject to approval of the Traffic Engineer. Tow away no parking zones will be posted with signs containing the words “No Parking” and “Tow Away Zone” by the Traffic Engineer.
The Chief of Police may designate a tow away zone on a temporary basis, not to exceed seven days. Such zone shall be posted with temporary signs containing the words “No Parking” and “Tow Away Zone” and “By Order of the Chief of Police.”
(2) No person shall stop, stand or park an unoccupied vehicle in any tow away zone or any area of the street between the curbline and the edge of the right-of-way or any street, alley or drive or any drive approach onto a public street or alley.
(f)
(1) A legally parked vehicle may be towed from any location when a police or fire supervisor has reason to believe the removal of the vehicle is necessary to facilitate public safety.
(2) When a vehicle is towed pursuant to subsection (f)(1) of this section:
(i) The City will bear the expense for such removal and storage.
(ii) The reason for the removal will be documented on the appropriate report filed at the Police or Fire Department by the towing officer.
(iii) The Police or Fire Department will take reasonable steps to locate the owner prior to towing only as time permits in the interest of public safety.
(iv) The Police or Fire Department will take reasonable steps to notify the owner of a towed vehicle as to the location of the vehicle and the reason it was towed. (Ord. 20605 § 3, 10-14-25.)
Cross References: Fire Department, TMC 2.20.030 ; Traffic Engineer, TMC 10.10.010 .
