The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
“Airport” means the Forbes Field Airport and the Philip Billard Airport.
“Airport elevation” means the highest point of an airport’s usable landing area measured in feet from mean sea level.
“Airport hazard” means any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of aircraft.
Approach, Transitional, Horizontal and Conical Zones. These zones apply to the area under the approach, transitional, horizontal and conical surfaces defined in the Federal Aviation Administration regulations, 14 CFR Part 77 .
“Board of Zoning Appeals” means a board consisting of not less than three nor more than seven members appointed by the Mayor of the City.
Height. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
“Nonconforming use” means any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or any amendment thereto.
“Nonprecision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or area-type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned, and for which no precision approach facilities are planned or indicated on an FAA planning document or military service’s military airport planning document.
“Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association or governmental entity. It includes a trustee, receiver, assignee or similar representative of any of them.
“Precision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or a precision approach radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an FAA-approved airport layout plan or a military service’s military airport planning document.
“Primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway.
The width of the primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in 14 CFR Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Administration regulations for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
“Runway” means a defined area of an airport prepared for the landing and takeoff of aircraft along its length.
“Structure” means an object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formations and overhead transmission lines.
“Tree” means any object of natural growth.
“Utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for an intended use by propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
“Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA-approved airport layout plan, a military service’s approved military airport layout plan, or by a planning document submitted to the FAA by competent authority. (Code 1981 § 4-56. Code 1995 § 22-27.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
