(a) In consideration of this Contract Franchise, Grantee agrees to remit to the City a franchise fee of 5% of Gross Receipts. To determine the franchise fee, Grantee shall calculate the Gross Receipts and multiply such receipts by 5%. Thereafter, subject to subsection (b) hereafter, compensation for each calendar year of the remaining term of this Contract Franchise shall continue to be based on a sum equal to 5% of Gross Receipts, unless the City notifies Grantee prior to ninety days (90) before the end of the calendar year that it intends to switch to an Access line fee in the following calendar year; provided, such Access line fee shall not exceed the maximum Access line fee allowed by Kansas law. In the event the City elects to change its basis of compensation, nothing herein precludes the City from switching its basis of compensation back; provided the City notifies Grantee prior to ninety days (90) before the end of the calendar year.
(b) Beginning January 1, 2020, and every 36 months thereafter, the City, subject to the public notification procedures set forth in K.S.A. 12-2001 (m) and amendments thereto, may elect to adopt an increased Access line fee or gross receipts fee subject to the provisions and maximum fee limitations contained in K.S.A. 12-2001 and amendments thereto, or may choose to decline all or any portion of any increase in the Access line fee.
(c) Grantee shall pay on a monthly basis without requirement for invoice or reminder from the City, and within 45 days of the last day of the month for which the payment applies franchise fees due and payable to the City. If any franchise fee, or any portion thereof, is not postmarked or delivered on or before the due date, interest thereon shall accrue from the due date until received, at the applicable statutory interest rate.
(d) Upon written request by the City, but no more than once per quarter, Grantee shall submit to the City a certified statement showing the manner in which the franchise fee was calculated.
(e) No acceptance by the City of any franchise fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall acceptance of any franchise fee payment be construed as a release of any claim of the City. Any dispute concerning the amount due under this Section shall be resolved in the manner set forth in K.S.A. 12-2001 , and amendments thereto. Subject to any limitations of Kansas Statute, Grantee’s payment obligations shall survive the expiration or termination of this Contract Franchise.
(f) The City shall have the right to examine, upon written notice to Grantee no more often than once per calendar year, those records necessary to verify the correctness of the franchise fees paid by Grantee.
(g) Unless previously paid, within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Contract Franchise, Grantee shall pay to the City a one-time application fee of $1000.00. The parties agree that such fee reimburses the City for its reasonable, actual and verifiable costs of reviewing and approving this Contract Franchise.
(h) The franchise fee required herein pursuant to K.S.A. 12-2001(j) , shall be in addition to, not in lieu of, all taxes, charges, assessments, licenses, fees and impositions otherwise applicable that are or may be imposed by the City under K.S.A. 12-2001 and K.S.A. 17-1902 and amendments thereto. The franchise fee shall in no way be deemed a tax of any kind.
(i) Grantee shall remit an access line (franchise) fee or a gross receipts (franchise) fee to the City on those access lines that have been resold to another telecommunications local exchange service provider, but in such case the City shall not collect a franchise fee from the reseller service provider and shall not require the reseller service provider to enter a Contract Franchise Ordinance. Such Access line (franchise) fee or Gross Receipts (franchise) fee shall be in the same amount or percentage as the franchise fee set forth in subsection 4 a. hereinabove. (Ord. 20252 § 4, 8-11-20.)
