(a) Required. All officers of the City, whether elected or appointed, as well as each person to be employed by the City, shall, before entering upon the duties of his/her respective office, appointment or employment, take and subscribe an oath or affirmation, as follows:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that l will support the Constitution of the United States of America and the Constitution of the State of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ________________ (here enter name of office or employment). So help me God.
(b) Officers. All officers required by law to take and subscribe such oath or affirmation shall be provided with the necessary forms to accomplish this requirement at the expense of the City and, upon taking, subscribing and/or signing any such oath or affirmation, such completed original or copies of oaths shall be filed with the City Clerk. Oaths or affirmations required under this subsection shall be administered before such officers in the manner prescribed by State law.
(c) Employees. All employees required by law to take and subscribe such oath or affirmation shall be provided with the necessary forms to accomplish this requirement at the expense of the City and, upon taking, subscribing and/or signing any such oath or affirmation, such completed original or copies of oaths shall be filed with the Human Resources Department. Oaths or affirmations required under this subsection shall be administered before such officers in the manner prescribed by State law.
(d) No Funds until Oath Taken. The Department of Administrative and Financial Services shall not disburse any funds in payment for services to any officer or employee of the City until the original oath or affirmation provided for in this section shall have been duly subscribed and the original or a copy is filed with the City Clerk or the Department of Human Resources. (Ord. 20206 §§ 17, 86, 9-10-19.)
Cross References: City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 ; Administrative and Financial Services Department, TMC 2.20.020 ; Human Resources Department, TMC 2.20.040 .
State Law References: K.S.A. 75-4308 .
