(a) Reasons. A domestic partnership registered with the City shall be removed from the registry for the following reasons:
(1) One of the partners dies and the City is notified thereof; or
(2) A request for removal from the domestic partner registry has been filed by one or both of the individuals registered as domestic partners with the City.
(b) Procedure. A domestic partnership registered with the City shall be removed from the registry in accordance with the following procedures:
(1) Within 90 days of the dissolution of the domestic partnership, at least one former partner shall file a request for removal from the domestic partner registry with an office of the City designated by the City Manager pursuant to procedures adopted by the City Manager. Upon receipt, the City shall provide the domestic partner who filed the request for removal from the domestic partner registry with two copies of the request marked “filed.” Unless the partners jointly file the request, the partner filing the request shall within five days send a copy of the filed request to the other partner’s last known address. This notice requirement does not apply if the removal request is due to a death of one of the domestic partners.
(2) The request shall be effective upon filing the request for removal from the domestic partner registry with the City by one or both partners or on the date of the death of one.
(3) A former domestic partner who has given a copy of the declaration of domestic partnership to any third party to qualify for any benefit or right, and whose receipt of that benefit or enjoyment of that right has not otherwise terminated, shall notify the third party in writing of the request for removal from the domestic partner registry, at the last known address of the third party.
(4) Failure to provide third party notice required in subsection (b)(3) of this section shall not delay or prevent the removal of the domestic partnership from the registry. The City shall have no duty to provide notice to third parties. (Ord. 20206 § 14, 9-10-19; Ord. 19905 § 5, 5-20-14. Formerly 2.150.050.)
