(a) All manufactured or mobile homes to be placed within all unnumbered and numbered A zones, AE zones, and AH zones on the community’s FIRM shall be required to be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured or mobile homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(b) Manufactured or mobile homes that are placed or substantially improved within unnumbered or numbered A zones, AE zones, and AH zones, on the community’s FIRM shall be placed only on the following sites:
(1) Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
(2) In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
(3) In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision; or
(4) In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured or mobile home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation and be securely attached to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. All mechanical and heating ventilation equipment to be elevated to same level of one foot above the base flood elevation. The elevation of the lowest floor shall be certified by a licensed land surveyor or professional engineer.
(c) Manufactured or mobile homes that are placed or substantially improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within all unnumbered and numbered A zones, AE zones and AH zones, on the community’s FIRM, that are not subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured or mobile home is a minimum of one foot above the base flood level. The elevation of the lowest floor shall be certified by a licensed land surveyor or professional engineer. Mechanical and HVAC equipment shall be elevated to the same level as the lowest floor. (Ord. 20425 § 11, 6-20-23.)
