(a) As further consideration for the granting of this franchise, and in lieu of city occupation, license or permit fees, or revenue taxes, except as expressly provided herein, the Company shall pay to the City during the term of this franchise, a franchise fee of: (i) five percent of the actual gross cash receipts collected by the company from the distribution of natural gas to all sales consumers within the corporate limits of the City; and (ii) a sum equal to the volumetric rate multiplied by the number of MCF of transport gas for the distribution of transport gas for transportation consumers, all such payments to be made monthly for the preceding monthly period.
(b) The company’s obligation for payments of the franchise fee shall commence with the first cycle of the monthly billing cycle following the effective date of this franchise ordinance. Prior to that date, payments shall continue to be calculated and be paid in the manner previously provided in Ordinance No. 18295 , and amendments thereto.
(c) In the event a consumer of company does not pay a monthly bill from company in full, company shall prorate its payments of remissions to the City for sums due on that particular bill so that the amount actually paid by the consumer to company on the bill is distributed to company and to the City for sums due on the bill in proportion to the percentage of the total bill actually paid by the consumer. In the event company actually collects any outstanding amounts due on a past due, unpaid, or partially paid monthly customer bill, the company shall pay City its proportionate share of sums due to the City on such bill.
(d) Upon written request by the City (but no more than once per quarter), the company shall submit to the City a certified statement showing the manner in which the franchise fee was calculated. The City shall have the right to examine within the corporate limits of the City and during regular business hours, upon reasonable advance written notice to the company, all books, papers and records kept by the company in the ordinary course of business and pertaining to its business carried on by it in or through the City, necessary to verify the correctness of the franchise fee paid by company.
(e) No acceptance by the City of any franchise fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall acceptance of any franchise fee payment be construed as a release of any claim of the City. Any dispute concerning the amount due under this section shall be resolved in the manner set forth in K.S.A. 12-2001 , and amendments thereto.
(f) The franchise fee required herein shall be in lieu of all taxes, charges, assessments, licenses, fees and impositions otherwise applicable that are or may be imposed by the City under K.S.A. 12-2001 , K.S.A. 17-1902 , and amendments thereto. From and after the date hereof, the permit fees required of the company by any ordinance (presently in effect or hereafter adopted) for a permit to excavate in, or adjacent to, any public way shall be deemed a part of the compensation paid pursuant to this franchise ordinance and shall not be separately assessed or collected by the City; in no event, however, shall this provision be interpreted to waive the requirement of notice to the City and the procedural requirements of such ordinance. The franchise fee is compensation for use of the public way. (Ord. 20503 § 3, 7-30-24.)
