(a) In consideration of and as compensation for the franchise hereby granted to the Company by the City, the Company shall make an accounting on a monthly basis to the City of all electric energy that has been distributed within the City. The Company shall pay the City:
A sum equal to six percent (6%) of the Gross Receipts received from such Distribution of electric energy; and the above sum shall be adjusted for uncollectible receivables and for receivables which are later collected.
(b) Payment of the compensation above shall be effective on the first day of the first month after approval by the City Governing Body and acceptance by the Company. Prior to that date, payments shall continue to be calculated and be paid in the manner previously provided in Ordinance 18297 . Such payments shall be made to the City under procedures, which are mutually agreed to by the Company and the City within thirty (30) days of the last day of the month to which such accounting shall apply.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Franchise, the fee provided for in this Section 4 shall not become effective within any area annexed by the City until 30 days after the City provides the Company with a certified copy of the annexation ordinance, proof of publication as required by law and a map of the city detailing the annexed area.
(d) Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure the accuracy of its records and of the determination of the amount of Gross Receipts subject to the fee provided for in this Section 4. In the event and to the extent the accounting rendered to the City by the Company is found to be incorrect due to Company’s failure to use commercially reasonable efforts as provided herein, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount, it being agreed that the City may accept any amount offered by the Company, but the acceptance thereof by the City shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or later found to be incorrect. The Company agrees that all of its books, records, documents, contracts and agreements as may be reasonably necessary for an effective compliance review of this Ordinance shall upon reasonable notice and at all reasonable times be opened to the inspection and examination of the officers of the City and its duly authorized agents, auditor, and employees for the purpose of verifying said accounting. Notwithstanding the obligation herein, the Company shall have the right to require the reasonable protection of proprietary information of the Company. (Ord. 19856 § 4, 10-1-13.)
