The Governing Body makes the following findings:
(a) The high volume of motor vehicles travelling on congested roadways in the City makes mixing pedestrian and the moving, slowing or temporarily stopping of motor vehicles in the same space, at the same time, inherently dangerous.
(b) Pedestrians distracting drivers from the task of driving by approaching a stopped vehicle, attracting and/or attempting to attract the attention of the driver of a motor vehicle for the purpose of inducing that driver to slow or stop the vehicle to facilitate the transfer of anything by the pedestrian to the driver or passenger is hazardous to public safety, both for occupants of motor vehicles and for pedestrians.
(c) The prohibitions set forth in this chapter are narrowly tailored to serve the significant interest of promoting and protecting the public health, safety and welfare and that these prohibitions leave open ample alternative channels of communication throughout the City.
(d) It is the intent of this chapter to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the City, to assure the free, orderly, undisrupted movement of motor vehicles at designated intersections within City limits, and to provide for the safety and interests of pedestrians and of occupants of motor vehicles located at designated intersections within the City and to reduce the number of pedestrian and motor vehicle accidents occurring within the City.
(e) Pedestrians are increasingly using highways and roadways in ways for which the roads were not designed or intended. These uses include approaching vehicles when stopped or in use or staying upon medians and in the public right-of-way for purposes other than crossing the highway. These activities create safety hazards for pedestrians and distract drivers, making automobile accidents more likely. This chapter is designed to decrease the safety hazards by restricting such activity. These safety concerns are most acute in the busiest intersections in the City. (Ord. 20234 § 1, 1-7-20.)
