(a) General. Unless otherwise indicated on the approved grading plan, drainage facilities and terracing shall conform to the provisions of this section for cut or fill slopes steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
(b) Terraces.
(1) Terraces at least six feet in width shall be established at not more than 30-foot vertical intervals on all cut or fill slopes to control surface drainage and debris. For cut or fill slopes greater than 60 feet and up to 120 feet in vertical height, one terrace at approximately midheight shall be 12 feet in width. Terrace widths and spacing for cut and fill slopes greater than 120 feet in height shall be designed by the civil engineer and approved by the Public Works Director. Suitable access shall be provided to permit proper cleaning and maintenance.
(2) Swales or ditches on terraces shall be designed by the civil engineer and approved by the Public Works Director. A single run of swale or ditch shall not collect runoff from a tributary area exceeding 13,500 square feet (projected) without discharging into a down drain.
(c) Subsurface Drainage. Cut and fill slopes shall be provided with subsurface drainage as necessary for stability.
(d) Disposal. All drainage facilities shall be designed to carry waters to the nearest practicable drainageway approved by the Development Coordination Office and/or other appropriate jurisdiction as a safe place to deposit such waters. Erosion of ground in the area of discharge shall be prevented by installation of nonerosive downdrains or other devices. Building pads shall have a drainage gradient of two percent toward approved drainage facilities, unless waived by the Public Works Director.
(e) Interceptor Drains. Paved interceptor drains shall be installed along the top of all cut slopes where the tributary drainage area above slopes towards the cut and has a drainage path greater than 40 feet measured horizontally. The design of the drain shall be approved by the Development Coordination Office. (Ord. 16432 § 6(7), 3-10-92. Code 1995 § 66-127.)
