(a) Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way permit from the Director to do so. Permit areas are as follows:
(1) Excavation Permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing equipment described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified therein.
(2) Temporary Use of Right-of-Way Permit. A temporary use of right-of-way permit is required to encroach upon public streets, sidewalks, or other public property to be used during construction as an area for storage of construction materials or equipment, or for the erection of fencing, barricades, sidewalk, passageways, or construction office, such area being used in such a manner as to deny the public the use of such street, alley, or public property.
(3) Traffic Disruption Permit. A traffic disruption permit is required before closing down lane(s) of traffic, utilizing proper traffic control devices and, if applicable, providing detour route(s).
(4) Sidewalk Permit. A sidewalk permit is required for any construction or reconstruction of public sidewalk(s).
(5) Driveway Permit. A driveway permit is required prior to construction or reconstruction of driveway approaches including the cutting and/or removal of curbs and gutters.
(b) Permit Extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way beyond the date(s) specified in the permit unless such person: (1) makes a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and (2) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
(c) Permit Display. Permits issued here shall be available for review at all times at the work site. In addition, all utilities will prominently identify all work sites with the name of their utility and emergency telephone number to facilitate notification in the event of an emergency, etc. Sign posting in the nearest right-of-way is appropriate where it is impractical to sign due to traffic, etc. (Ord. 17587 § 5-4, 10-24-00. Code 1995 § 130-679.)
Cross References: Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
