(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Driveway” is a paved or graveled area that is intended for off-street vehicular parking.
(2) “Park” or “parking” shall mean the standing of a vehicle or machinery on or over a paved or graveled area, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for the purpose of loading or unloading property or passengers.
(3) “Paved or graveled area” shall mean (i) an area comprised of a solid, permanent surface constructed of asphalt, concrete, stone, brick or other similar material of sufficient dimension to accommodate the entire vehicle or machinery, with no overhang onto dirt or grass; or (ii) an area comprised of a loose aggregation of rock fragments (e.g., gravel) thick enough to prevent grass, weeds and dirt from permeating or penetrating through and of sufficient dimension to accommodate the entire vehicle or machinery, with no overhang onto dirt or grass.
(4) “Vehicle or machinery” shall mean a machine propelled by power (other than human power) that is designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport persons or property. “Vehicle or machinery” shall include, without limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, boats, campers, or tractors.
(b) Prohibitions – Enforcement – Waiver.
(1) It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or allow to be parked, any such vehicle or machinery on the back yard of a residential lot for more than three months, or on any other part of a residential lot for any period of time, unless on a paved or graveled area or on a driveway, as defined by subsections (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section. Such paved or graveled area or driveway must be maintained free of vegetation, debris and standing water.
(2) In addition to law enforcement officers, property maintenance inspectors shall also have the authority to issue a uniform complaint and notice to appear for violations of this section, as provided in TMC 2.40.130 and 2.40.210 .
(3) The Governing Body may, by resolution, waive the provisions of subsection (b)(1) of this section for properties within a designated area requested by an event sponsor and identified in the resolution in order to accommodate a special event approved pursuant to Chapter 12.70 TMC. (Ord. 20494 § 1, 6-11-24.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
