Cargo containers as an accessory use are permitted in the I-1 and I-2 districts. In all other districts cargo containers are permitted only in accordance with the following provisions and standards.
(a) In a residential zoning district, one cargo container used as a moving pod no larger than 160 square feet and no more than nine feet tall may be used on a temporary basis for up to 30 days within a calendar year.
(b) In a nonresidential or mixed use zoning district, cargo containers no larger than 320 square feet and no more than nine feet tall may be used on a temporary basis for up to 30 days within a calendar year.
(c) In commercial zoning districts C-3, C-4, X-2 and where accessory to institutional uses in other zoning districts, cargo containers shall not be visible from a public street either by placement or opaque fence/landscape screening. Any cargo container only visible from the front of buildings on adjacent property shall be set against the primary building and color matched with the building, and shall be limited to one cargo container. In addition, cargo containers shall:
(1) Not displace or interfere with required parking, circulation, or emergency access;
(2) Not be used as a base, platform, or location for business identification signs;
(3) Not be located in any required front or side yard setback adjoining a street right-of-way; and
(4) Be located at grade level and not stacked.
(d) Exceptions to the requirements in subsections (a) through (c) of this section include:
(1) Cargo containers used for allowed on-site construction purposes for a period not to exceed the duration of a construction project with a valid building permit and for no more than 180 days for construction projects not requiring a building permit.
(2) Cargo containers used where accessory to public or institutional athletic fields as the primary use.
(e) Any legally existing cargo containers made nonconforming on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section shall conform on or before September 1, 2017. (Ord. 20062 § 34, 4-18-17.)
