Section R109.1, Types of inspections, including subsections, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
R109.1 Types of inspections. For onsite construction, from time to time the building official, upon notification from the permit holder or his agent, shall make or cause to be made any necessary inspections and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the building official, and such construction or work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the building official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
R109.1.1 Footing and foundation inspections. Inspection of the foundation footings shall be made after poles or piers are set or trenches or basement areas are excavated, and any required forms erected and any required reinforcing steel is in place and supported prior to the placing of concrete. The foundation footing inspection shall include excavations for thickened slabs intended for the support of bearing walls, partitions, structural supports, or equipment and special requirements for wood foundations. The foundation wall inspection shall be made after the concrete forms are set and any required reinforcing steel is in place and supported.
R109.1.1.1 Wall bracing inspection. Inspection of the required braced wall lines and braced wall panels to verify compliance with applicable bracing requirements of sections R602.10 through R602.12 shall be made after the installation of wall sheathing and prior to installation of any housewrap or exterior wall covering. Required interior braced wall panels, including all required blocking and connections both above and below the panels shall also be in place. Required nailing/patterns for bracing shall be completed and ready for inspection. Rough-in of electrical, mechanical and plumbing systems shall not take place until approval of the wall bracing by the building official. The approved plans showing the location, methods used, minimum lengths, attachment specs, etc. shall be provided on the site for reference by the building official.
R109.1.2 Plumbing, mechanical, gas and electrical systems inspection. Rough inspection of plumbing, mechanical, gas and electrical systems shall be made prior to covering or concealment, before fixtures or appliances are set or installed, and prior to framing inspection.
Exception: Back-filling of ground-source heat pump loop systems tested in accordance with Section E505.0 Uniform Mechanical Code prior to inspection shall be permitted.
R109.1.3 Floodplain inspections. For construction in areas prone to flooding as established on flood insurance rate map (FIRM) panels referenced on the associated FIRM Index dated September 29, 2011, as amended, and any future revisions thereto, upon placement of the lowest floor, including basement, and prior to further vertical construction, the building official shall require submission of documentation, prepared and sealed by a registered design professional, of the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, required in TMC 17.30.190 .
R109.1.4 Frame and masonry inspection. Inspection of framing and masonry constructions shall be made after the roof, masonry, all framing, firestopping, draftstopping and bracing are in place and after the plumbing, mechanical and electrical rough inspections are approved.
R109.1.5 Other inspections. In addition to the called inspections above, the building official may make or require any other inspections to ascertain compliance with this code and other laws enforced by the building official. Before issuing a permit, the building official is authorized to examine or cause to be examined buildings, structures and sites for which an application has been filed.
R109.1.5.1 Fire-resistance-rated construction inspection. Where fire-resistance-rated construction is required between dwelling units or due to location on property, the building official shall require an inspection of such construction after all lathing and/or wallboard is in place, but before any plaster is applied, or before wallboard joints and fasteners are taped and finished.
R109.1.6 Final inspection. Final inspection shall be made after the permitted work is complete and prior to occupancy.
R109.1.7 Insulation inspection. Inspection of all placed insulation in walls, floors, and ceiling assemblies in accordance with the International Energy Conservation Code, adopted at TMC Chapter 14.90, shall occur after an approved framing inspection.
(Ord. 20467 § 6, 12-5-23.)
