(a) Whenever, due to unusual conditions, the amount of water consumed and the amount of wastewater generated are significantly different, the owners of any property served by the wastewater collection system may make application to the Water Pollution Control Division to have their wastewater service charge calculated on the basis of wastewater generated in lieu of the volume of water consumed. This amount must be determined by one of the following methods:
(1) Actual measurement of the wastewater discharged to the City sewer.
(2) Measurement by a water meter of the water consumed that is discharged to the sanitary sewer.
(3) Measurement by water meter of the water consumed that is not ultimately discharged to the sanitary sewer. The wastewater service charge shall then be based on the difference between the total water consumed and the amount not discharged to the sanitary sewer.
(b) Water that is used in a single-pass air conditioning cooling tower (no recirculation of cooling water) may be discharged to the storm sewer system. All water used in this method and disposed of in the storm sewer may be deducted from the water consumed to obtain a volume on which to charge wastewater service charges.
(c) Water that is used in a recirculating type air conditioning cooling tower may be deducted from the water consumed; provided, that the amount of blow-down discharged to the sanitary sewer is measured or reasonably estimated and is not deducted from the water consumption, to determine the wastewater service charge.
(d) All costs associated with the installation and maintenance of metering facilities shall be the responsibility of the customer desiring the adjustment. Responsibility for obtaining and reporting monthly or bimonthly meter readings, on a form supplied by the Water Pollution Control Division, will be the responsibility of the customer. Failure to report meter readings will be justification for eliminating the credit for water consumed but not discharged to the sanitary sewer.
(e) The Water Pollution Control Division will make an annual inspection of each metering facility to determine its suitability and the correctness of the meter reading.
(f) Contracts that were in effect at the time this section became effective will be allowed to expire. Exemption for water consumed but not discharged to the sanitary sewer, after the expiration date of the contract, will not be allowed except as measured in accordance with subsection (a) of this section. (Ord. 19496 § 94, 12-21-10. Code 1981 § 44-299.1. Code 1995 § 146-345. Formerly 14.80.810.)
