(a)
(1) Any owner of vacant property located within the City shall register the real property within 10 days after the property becomes vacant, or within 10 days after assuming ownership of the property, whichever is later.
(2) An owner of vacant property shall not be required to register the real property if the owner is performing renovation activities or has temporarily vacated the property for a period not in excess of 180 days.
(b) Registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a minimum the name of the owner, the mailing address of the owner, email address, and telephone number of the owner, and, if applicable, the name and telephone number of the property manager and the manager’s address, email address, and telephone number.
(c) If the owner resides outside a 60-mile radius of the City limits, the owner shall appoint an agent who resides within the City limits. The owner shall provide the agent’s full name, property management company name (if applicable), email address (if applicable), telephone number and mailing address.
(d) If the property is sold or transferred, the new owner is subject to all the terms of this chapter. Within 10 days of the transfer, the new owner shall register the vacant property or update the existing registration, on a form provided by the Director.
(e) An owner shall notify the Director, on a form provided by the Director, when the property is no longer vacant.
(f) Failure of an owner to register is a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to a civil penalty for each violation as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule.
(g) If the civil penalty is not paid within 30 days from the payment date or, if appealed pursuant to Chapter 2.45 TMC, 30 days from the final decision of the Hearing Officer, the obligation may be collected in the same manner as a personal debt of the owner to the City and/or through placement of a lien upon the real property as a special assessment against the property. The City Clerk shall certify the unpaid portion of the penalty to the County Clerk who shall collect the assessment at the same time as ad valorem property taxes. (Ord. 20631 § 42, 1-13-26.)
Cross References: City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 ; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
