(a) The Municipal Judge shall establish a schedule of fines which shall be imposed for municipal ordinance violations that are classified as ordinance traffic infractions. Also, the Municipal Judge may establish a schedule of fines which shall be imposed for the violation of certain other ordinances. Any fine so established shall be within the minimum and maximum allowable fines established by ordinance for such offenses by the Governing Body. The following traffic violations are specifically excluded from any schedule of fines:
(1) Reckless driving;
(2) Driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or both, or driving with a blood or breath alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more;
(3) Driving without a valid license issued or on a canceled, suspended or revoked license;
(4) Fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer; or
(5) Offense comparable to those prescribed by K.S.A. 8-1602 and 8-1604 and amendments thereto.
(b) A person charged with the violation of an ordinance contained in a schedule of fines established under subsection (a) of this section shall, except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, appear at the place and time specified in the notice to appear. If the person enters an appearance, waives right to trial, or pleads guilty or no contest, the fine shall be no greater than that specified in the schedule.
(c) Prior to the time specified in the notice to appear, a person charged with an ordinance cigarette or tobacco infraction or a violation of an ordinance contained in a schedule of fines established under subsection (a) of this section may enter an appearance, waive right to trial, plead guilty or no contest and pay the fine for the violation as specified in the schedule or in TMC 2.40.280(a) and amendments thereto. At the election of the person charged, such appearance, waiver, plea and payment may be made by mail or in person and payment may be by personal check. The complaint shall not have been complied with if a check is not honored for any reason, or the fine is not paid in full prior to the time specified in the notice to appear. When a person charged with an ordinance cigarette or tobacco infraction or an ordinance traffic infraction or other ordinance violation on a schedule of fines makes payment without executing a written waiver of right to trial and plea of guilty or no contest, the payment shall be deemed such an appearance, waiver of right to trial and plea of no contest.
The Municipal Judge may authorize the clerk of the Municipal Court or some other person to accept by mail or in person such voluntary appearance, plea of guilty or no contest and payment of the fine imposed by the schedule or by TMC 2.40.280(a) and amendments thereto.
The schedule of fines and persons authorized to accept such pleas shall be conspicuously displayed in the office where such voluntary appearance, plea of guilty and payment of fine occurs, upon request. (Ord. 20206 § 9, 9-10-19; Ord. 17666 § 35, 3-27-01. Code 1995 § 50-70. Formerly 2.110.330.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
State Law References: Similar State statute, K.S.A. 12-4305 .
