(a) This Contract Franchise shall be effective for a term beginning on the effective date of this Contract Franchise as established by Section 16 herein, and ending on December 31, 2021. Thereafter, this Contract Franchise will automatically renew for up to eight (8) additional two (2) year terms, unless either party notifies the other party of its intent to terminate the Contract Franchise at least ninety (90) days before the termination of the then current term. The additional term shall be deemed a continuation of this Contract Franchise and not as a new franchise or amendment.
(b) Upon written request of either the City or Grantee, this Contract Franchise shall be renegotiated at any time in accordance with the requirements of state law upon any of the following events: changes in federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or orders that materially affect any rights or obligations of either the City or Grantee, including but not limited to the scope of the Contract Franchise granted to Grantee or the compensation to be received by the City hereunder.
(c) If any clause, sentence, section, or provision of K.S.A. 12-2001 and amendments thereto, shall be held to be invalid by a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, provided such order is not stayed, either the City or Grantee may elect to terminate the entire Contract Franchise. In the event of such invalidity, if Grantee is required by law to enter into a Contract Franchise with the City, the parties agree to act in good faith in promptly negotiating a new Contract Franchise.
(d) Amendments under this Section, if any, shall be made by Contract Franchise Ordinance as prescribed by statute. This Contract Franchise shall remain in effect according to its terms, pending completion of any review or renegotiation provided by this section.
(e) In the event the parties are actively negotiating in good faith a new Contract Franchise Ordinance or an amendment to this Contract Franchise upon the termination date of this Contract Franchise, the parties by written mutual agreement may extend the termination date of this Contract Franchise to allow for further negotiations. Such extension period shall be deemed a continuation of this Contract Franchise and not as a new Contract Franchise Ordinance or amendment. (Ord. 20252 § 10, 8-11-20.)
