(a) A sufficient application shall be submitted to the City Clerk according to the following timelines:
(1) If the event requires approval by the Governing Body for alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverages, at least 60 business days before the event.
(2) If the event occurs on a holiday, at least 45 business days before the event.
(3) If the event does not occur on a holiday, at least 30 business days before the event.
(4) If the event requests police escort services, at least 30 business days before the event.
(5) If the application is for a block party only, at least 20 business days before the event.
(6) An application shall not be accepted more than 12 months prior to the event.
(7) The City Manager or designee may waive an application deadline if the City Manager or designee determines that exigent circumstances exist. Applications submitted and accepted after the required deadline will be charged a late fee as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule.
(b) The applicant shall provide the following information:
(1) The type of event.
(2) The date and times of the event, including specific times for setup and teardown.
(3) The name and contact information of the applicant and the sponsor, if not the same. If the event is sponsored by a person other than the applicant, the applicant shall provide authorization from the sponsor.
(4) The name and contact information for the individual who will be responsible for the conduct of, and be present during, the event.
(5) The public property to be utilized. If the event is a parade, identification of one of the routes approved by the Police Chief and Traffic Engineer or their designees, as well as the approximate number of people, motor vehicles, floats and/or animals.
(6) The size of the anticipated crowd.
(7) Whether alcohol or cereal malt beverages will be available.
(8) A site plan that includes the following:
(i) A map identifying potential street closures and placement of barricades.
(ii) Location of stages and vendors.
(iii) Location of fencing.
(iv) Location of toilets and lavatory facilities.
(v) Sound and sound amplification to be used, if any; including number, location and power of amplifiers and speakers.
(vi) Seating, including chairs, tables and bleachers.
(vii) Location of barricades for areas serving cereal malt beverages and/or alcoholic liquor.
(viii) Location of designated fire access lanes.
(ix) Parking areas if street closure requested.
(9) If the applicant is requesting street closures, written notice must be provided as follows:
(i) If the applicant is requesting street closures for a block party, the applicant shall provide written notice to all residents within the blockaded area at least 10 business days prior to the event.
(ii) If the applicant is requesting street closures in any other situation, the applicant shall provide written notice at least 10 business days prior to the event to: (A) all residents and/or businesses that may be affected by the street closures; and (B) any business improvement district established pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1781 et seq., in care of its board president (as well as the Executive Director of Downtown Topeka, Inc. (“DTI”) if within the downtown business improvement district).
(10) Acknowledgment by the applicant that any event staff or volunteers shall be at least 18 years of age and must be able to safely perform essential physical tasks, including standing for extended periods and moving light to moderately heavy equipment (such as barricades), with or without reasonable accommodation, and shall act under the direction and supervision of the applicant when assisting with the following activities: the placement, removal, relocation, or monitoring of signage, barricades, fencing, cones, and other traffic control devices; directing vehicular or pedestrian traffic; monitoring ingress and egress points; providing crowd control; assisting with event setup and teardown; maintaining event perimeters; supporting parking operations; and performing other duties reasonably related to the safe, orderly, and lawful conduct of the event. The City does not provide event staff or volunteers for events. The applicant is responsible for acquiring all necessary event staff or volunteers.
(11) A certificate of liability insurance required by TMC 12.70.080 .
(12) Any additional information requested by the City Manager or designee to assist in making a determination regarding whether to issue a permit. (Ord. 20662 § 3, 6-2-26; Ord. 20038 § 19, 12-6-16.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 ; Police Chief, TMC 2.20.090 .
