(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of electrical, mechanical or plumbing contracting in or on mobile homes without first having secured a mobile home contractor license.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the trade or otherwise perform the act of installing, repairing or altering electrical wiring for light, heat or power, and all other electrical equipment, appliances and devices, air conditioning, heating equipment or plumbing in or on a mobile home within the City without first having secured a master mobile home craftsman license and being in the employ of a licensed mobile home contractor. For purposes of this chapter, installation includes, but is not necessarily limited to, skirting, blocking and tiedowns. The following exceptions shall be allowed:
(1) Persons having a journeyman mobile home craftsman license as provided for in this chapter shall be permitted to work when they are in the employ of a licensed mobile home contractor, and he is under the supervision or direction of a licensed master mobile home craftsman.
(2) A person having an apprentice mobile home craftsman license, as provided for in this chapter, shall be permitted to work under the supervision or direction of a master mobile home craftsman or licensed journeyman mobile home craftsman.
(3) The owner of a mobile home unit may install a mobile home and may also make the necessary utility connections, provided the owner of the mobile home resides in the mobile home and a permit for such work is obtained as provided for in this chapter.
(4) The licensed owner of a mobile home park may install a mobile home within such licensed mobile home park and may also make the necessary utility connections within such licensed mobile home park, provided the licensed owner of the mobile home park obtains a permit for such work as provided for in this chapter.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit an electrical, plumbing or mechanical contractor from performing the services for which he is licensed under this code in or on a mobile home. (Code 1981 § 25-161. Code 1995 § 98-221.)
