(a) The following is a list of the nontrade contractor’s license categories available from the City and the scope of the work allowed by such license:
“Commercial contractor type I” shall entitle the holder of this license to contract for and to perform any act as a contractor to erect, construct, enlarge, or remodel any commercial, single or multiple dwelling residential buildings not exceeding three stories in height and to perform nonstructural remodeling and tenant finishes.
“Commercial contractor type II” shall entitle the holder of this license to contract for and to perform any act as a contractor for any structure.
“Concrete contractor” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and perform any act as a contractor to pour and finish any floor, driveway, parking area, street, or sidewalk or to pour and finish any footer, basement, wall, or other structural building element.
“Demolition contractor” shall entitle the holder of this license to demolish any building.
“Elevator contractor” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and perform any act as a contractor to install, repair and maintain any elevator, dumbwaiter, escalator, or moving walk.
“Excavation contractor” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and perform any act as a contractor to grade, excavate, fill, clear, and construct earth works.
“Fire alarm contractor” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and perform any act to install, maintain, repair, or alter any fire alarm system.
“Fire sprinkler contractor” shall entitle the holder to install, maintain, repair, alter or extend all piping for fire sprinkler systems, including the connection to the water service outlet provided for fire sprinkler systems.
“Framing contractor” shall entitle the holder to fabricate and install any wood, metal or composites product in a structure including, but not limited to, rough framing, structural and nonstructural work, trusses, sheathing, paneling, trim, cabinetry, doors and windows and all hardware incidental thereto. A framing contractor may not contract for or install, maintain, repair or alter any concrete, masonry, roofing, drywall or other work not specifically mentioned above. Further, the framing contractor may not act as a residential or commercial contractor type I or II or secure permits to build any structure; however, a framing contractor may obtain permits to construct decks and accessory structures.
“Residential contractor” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and to perform any act as a contractor to erect, construct, enlarge, or remodel any one- or two-family residence and accessory buildings thereto as governed by the currently adopted International Residential Code.
“Roofing contractor” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and to install, repair and replace roofs. Work may include roof deck insulation, roof coating, painting and covering, and may include use of sheet metal and installation of other sheet metal products incidental to roofing work or other material in connection therewith, or any combination thereof.
“Swimming pool contractor” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and to excavate, construct, fabricate, install and equip all swimming pools, including the pumps, pool heaters, solar pool heaters, filters and chlorinators and that piping incidental to the recirculating system. A swimming pool contractor may do concrete work, such as a patio or apron, incidental to the pool. A swimming pool contractor may not perform work involving the installation of electrical circuits, potable water supply lines, drain lines or gas lines.
(b) Any nontrade contractor license shall require the qualifying party to pass the appropriate examination selected by the Development Services Director from a recognized testing agency or alternatively providing the Development Services Director with a certified copy of a transcript from an accredited university, college or vocational school demonstrating passing grades in at least 30 hours of coursework directly related to the license applied for. No nontrade contractor shall be allowed to obtain a license unless the nontrade contractor shall have achieved a passing score on the appropriate examination or provided proof of meeting the educational requirements.
(c) Commercial contractor type I, commercial contractor type II, and residential contractors must provide the Development Services Division with documentation of having earned eight continuing education hours in a calendar year to maintain said license. All continuing education courses must be directly relevant to the contractor’s licensed field and must be approved by the Development Services Director. Further, at least four hours of the continuing education course work for each year must be directly related to construction techniques or other provisions contained in the applicable building code. (Ord. 19330 § 25, 11-3-09. Code 1995 § 30-525.)
