Under the terms of this division, a required yard shall be open, unoccupied, and unobstructed from grade to the sky. The following are permitted encroachments in required yards:
(a) Accessory Building. Accessory buildings may be located in any yard except the front yard, provided they shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 18.210 TMC.
(b) Architectural Features. Eaves, cornices, marquees, awnings, canopies, belt courses, sills, buttresses or other similar features which extend beyond the wall of a building may encroach into any required yard by not more than 30 inches.
(c) Canopy, Gas Pump Island. Unenclosed canopies over gas pump islands may encroach into any required yard, provided the supports shall be no closer than 10 feet to the right-of-way line and do not conflict with the sight distance triangle as established by the City or County.
(d) Chimneys, Bay Windows and Balconies. Chimneys, bay windows and balconies may encroach into any yard not more than 30 inches, provided such features do not occupy, in the aggregate, more than one-third of the length of the building wall on which they are located.
(e) Fences, Hedges and Walls. Fences, hedges and walls may be located in any yard, subject to the requirements of TMC 18.210.040 .
(f) Fire Escapes and Unenclosed Stairways. Fire escapes and unenclosed stairways exceeding a height of six feet may encroach into any yard, provided they shall not extend into a side yard more than three feet or into a rear yard more than five feet. Fire escapes and unenclosed stairways that are six feet or less in height are subject to subsection (i) of this section.
(g) Dispensing Equipment and Devices. Fuel pump and air dispensing devices located in districts where allowed shall be exempt from the front yard requirement, but on a corner lot all such dispensing equipment and devices shall be subject to the sight distance triangle as established by the City or County.
(h) Off-Street Parking and Driveway Access. Except as otherwise provided in Chapters 18.235 and 18.240 TMC, open off-street parking and driveway access may be located in any yard.
(i) Uncovered Horizontal Structures. Uncovered horizontal structures such as porches, decks, stoops, and stair landings may encroach into required yards as follows:
(1) Uncovered horizontal structures of a height of six inches or less may encroach entirely into required yards but shall maintain a minimum distance of 12.5 feet from street rights-of-way.
(2) Uncovered horizontal structures of a height greater than six inches and no greater than 30 inches may encroach into required yards but shall maintain a minimum three-foot setback from side and rear property lines and a minimum setback of 12.5 feet from street rights-of-way.
(3) Uncovered horizontal structures of a height greater than 30 inches may encroach not more than 10 feet into the required front or rear yards but shall maintain a minimum distance of 12.5 feet from street rights-of-way.
(4) The height of a porch, deck, patio, stoop, stair landing or similar structure is measured from the deck or walking surface to surrounding grade.
(j) Signs. Signs may be located in any yard except as provided in Chapter 18.10 TMC. (Ord. 20062 § 36, 4-18-17.)
