(a) 402.2.5, Steel-frame ceilings, walls and floors—Exception, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(b) 402.2.7, Basement walls, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Conditioned spaces in finished basement areas shall be insulated from the top of the basement wall down to 10 feet (3,048 mm) below grade or to the basement floor, whichever is less.
(c) 402.2.8, Slab-on-grade floors, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Slab-on-grade floors with a floor surface less than 12 inches (305 mm) below grade shall be insulated in accordance with Table 402.1.1. The insulation shall extend downward from the top of the slab on the outside or inside of the foundation wall. Insulation located below grade shall be extended the distance provided in Table 402.1.1 by any combination of vertical insulation, insulation extending under the slab or insulation extending out from the building. Insulation extending away from the building shall be protected by pavement or by a minimum of 10 inches (254 mm) of soil. The top edge of the insulation installed between the exterior wall and the edge of the interior slab shall be permitted to be cut at a 45-degree (0.79 rad) angle away from the exterior wall. Slab-edge insulation is not required in jurisdictions designated by the Code Official as having a heavy termite infestation.
(d) 402.2.9, Crawl space walls, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
As an alternative to insulating floors over crawl spaces, crawl space walls shall be permitted to be insulated when the crawl space is not vented to the outside. Crawl space wall insulation shall be permanently fastened to the wall and extend downward from the floor to within 9 inches of the finished interior grade adjacent to the foundation wall. A 3-inch inspection gap immediately below the floor joists shall be provided to permit inspections for termites. Exposed earth in unvented crawl space foundations shall be covered with a continuous Class I vapor retarder in accordance with the International Residential Code. All joints of the vapor retarder shall overlap by 6 inches and be sealed or taped. The edges of the vapor retarder shall extend at least 6 inches up the stem wall and shall be attached to the stem wall.
(e) 402.3.2, Glazed fenestration SHGC, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(f) 402.3.3, Glazed fenestration exemption, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(g) 402.3.5, Thermally isolated sunroom U-factor, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
The maximum fenestration U-factor shall be 0.50 and the maximum skylight U-factor shall be 0.75. New windows and doors separating the sunroom from conditioned space shall meet the building thermal envelope requirements.
(h) 402.3.6, Replacement fenestration, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Where some or all of an existing fenestration unit is replaced with a new fenestration product, including sash and glazing, the replacement fenestration unit shall meet the applicable requirements for U-factor in Table 402.1.1.
(i) 402.4.3, Fireplaces, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
New wood-burning factory-built fireplaces shall have gasketed doors and outdoor combustion air. New wood-burning masonry fireplaces shall have outdoor combustion air. Ducts for combustion air supply shall be installed according to the terms of their listing, the manufacturer’s instructions, and the currently adopted edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
(j) 402.5, Maximum fenestration U-factor and SHGC (Mandatory), is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
The area-weighted average maximum fenestration U-factor permitted using trade-offs from Section 402.1.4 or 405 shall be 0.48 for vertical fenestration and 0.75 for skylights.
(k) 403.1.2, Heat pump supplementary heat (Mandatory), is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(l) 403.2.1, Insulation (Prescriptive), is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Supply ducts in attics shall be insulated to a minimum of R-8. All other ducts shall be insulated to a minimum of R-6.
Exception: Ducts or portions thereof located completely inside a conditioned space.
(m) 403.2.2, Sealing (Mandatory), is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
All ducts, air handlers, filter boxes and building cavities used as ducts shall be sealed when not located in conditioned space. Joints and seams shall comply with the currently adopted version of the Uniform Mechanical Code. Duct tightness shall be verified by visual inspection or either of the following:
1. Postconstruction test: Leakage to outdoors shall be less than or equal to 8 cfm (226.5 L/min) per 100 ft 2 (9.29 m 2 ) of conditioned floor area or a total leakage less than or equal to 12 cfm (12 L/min) per 100 ft 2 (9.29 m 2 ) of conditioned floor area when tested at a pressure differential of 0.1 inches w.g. (25 Pa) across the entire system, including the manufacturer’s air handler enclosure. All register boots shall be taped or otherwise sealed during the test.
2. Rough-in test: Total leakage shall be less than or equal to 6 cfm (169.9 L/min) per 100 ft 2 (9.29 m 2 ) of conditioned floor area when tested at a pressure differential of 0.1 inches w.g. (25 Pa) across the roughed in system, including the manufacturer’s air handler enclosure. All register boots shall be taped or otherwise sealed during the test. If the air handler is not installed at the time of the test, total leakage shall be less than or equal to 4 cfm (113.3 L/min) per 100 ft 2 (9.29 m 2 ) of conditioned floor area.
Exceptions: Duct tightness test is not required if the air handler and all ducts are located within conditioned space.
(n) 403.3, Mechanical system piping insulation (Mandatory), is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Mechanical system piping capable of carrying fluids above 105° F (41° C) or below 55° F (13° C) shall be insulated to a minimum of R-3.
Exception: Refrigerant liquid lines.
(o) 403.4, Circulating hot water systems (Mandatory), is hereby deleted and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
All circulating service hot water piping shall be insulated to at least R-2 when located outside of conditioned space. Circulating hot water systems shall include an automatic or readily accessible manual switch that can turn off the hot water circulating pump when the system is not in use.
(p) 403.6, Equipment sizing (Mandatory), is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Heating and cooling equipment shall be sized in accordance with the currently adopted version of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
(q) 403.7, Systems serving multiple dwelling units (Mandatory), is hereby deleted in its entirety. (Ord. 19697 § 9, 2-7-12.)
