(a) General Rule – Three Years. Except as provided in subsections (b) , (c) , (d) , (e) , (f) and (g) of this section, any person who has been convicted of a violation of an ordinance or has satisfied the terms of a diversion agreement may petition the Municipal Court for the expungement of such conviction, diversion and related arrest records if the following conditions are met:
(1) All assessed costs, fees and fines have been paid in full; and
(2) Three or more years have elapsed since the later of any of the following events:
(i) Completion of diversion;
(ii) Pronouncement of sentence; or
(iii) Discharged from probation, parole or incarceration.
(b) Exception – Knives – No Waiting Period. Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance that is prohibited by K.S.A. 12-16,134 (a) or (b) and amendments thereto, and which was adopted prior to July 1, 2014, or who entered into a diversion agreement in lieu of further criminal proceedings for such violation, may petition the court for the expungement of such conviction or diversion agreement and related arrest records.
(c) Exception – Selling Sexual Relations – One-Year Waiting Period. Any person convicted of the violation of an ordinance which would also constitute a violation of K.S.A. 21-3512 , prior to its repeal, or a violation of K.S.A. 21-6419 , and amendments thereto, or who entered into a diversion agreement in lieu of further criminal proceedings for such violation, may petition the Municipal Court for the expungement of such conviction or diversion agreement and related arrest records if the following conditions are met:
(1) All assessed costs, fees and fines have been paid in full; and
(2) One or more years have elapsed since the later of any of the following events:
(i) Completion of diversion;
(ii) Pronouncement of sentence; or
(iii) Discharge from probation, parole or incarceration; and
(3) Such person can prove they were acting under coercion caused by the act of another. For purposes of this section, “coercion” means: threats of harm or physical restraint against any person; a scheme, plan or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in bodily harm or physical restraint against any person; or the abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process.
(d) Exception – Motor Vehicle Related – Five Years. No person may petition for expungement of a conviction or a diversion agreement and related arrest records for any of the ordinance violations that would also constitute the crimes identified in subsection (d)(3) of this section until the conditions in subsections (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been met:
(1) All assessed costs, fees and fines have been paid in full; and
(2) Five or more years have elapsed since the later of any of the following events:
(i) Completion of diversion;
(ii) Pronouncement of sentence; or
(iii) Discharge from probation, parole or incarceration.
(3) Crimes.
(i) Vehicular homicide, as defined by K.S.A. 21-3405 , prior to its repeal, or K.S.A. 21-5406 , and amendments thereto;
(ii) Driving while the privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the public highways of this State has been canceled, suspended or revoked, as prohibited by K.S.A. 8-262 , and amendments thereto;
(iii) Perjury resulting from a violation of K.S.A. 8-261a , and amendments thereto;
(iv) A violation of the provisions of the fifth clause of K.S.A. 8-142 , and amendments thereto, relating to fraudulent applications;
(v) Any crime punishable as a felony wherein a motor vehicle was used in the perpetration of such crime;
(vi) Failing to stop at the scene of an accident and perform the duties required by K.S.A. 8-1602 , 8-1603 , prior to its repeal, or 8-1604 , and amendments thereto;
(vii) A violation of the provisions of K.S.A. 40-3104 , and amendments thereto, relating to motor vehicle liability insurance coverage; or
(viii) A violation of K.S.A. 21-3405b , prior to its repeal.
(e) Exception – Driving under the Influence, First Violation – Five Years. No person may petition for expungement of a conviction or a diversion agreement and related arrest records for a first violation of an ordinance which would also constitute a first violation of K.S.A. 8-1567 or 8-1025 and amendments thereto until the following conditions have been met:
(1) All assessed costs, fees and fines have been paid in full; and
(2) Five or more years have elapsed since the later of any of the following events:
(i) Completion of diversion;
(ii) Pronouncement of sentence; or
(iii) Discharge from probation, parole or incarceration.
(f) Exception – Driving under the Influence, Second and Subsequent Violations – Ten Years. No person may petition for expungement of a conviction or diversion agreement and related arrest records for a second or subsequent violation of an ordinance which would also constitute a second or subsequent violation of K.S.A. 8-1567 or 8-1025 and amendments thereto until the following conditions are met:
(1) All assessed costs, fees and fines have been paid in full; and
(2) Ten or more years have elapsed since the later of any of the following events:
(i) Completion of diversion;
(ii) Pronouncement of sentence; or
(iii) Discharge from probation, parole or incarceration.
(g) Exception – Driving under the Influence – Commercial Vehicles. There shall be no expungement of convictions or diversion for a violation of an ordinance which would also constitute a violation of K.S.A. 8-2144 and amendments thereto.
(h) Petition. When a petition for expungement is filed, the court shall set a date for a hearing thereon and shall give notice thereof to the prosecuting attorney. The petition shall state: (1) the defendant’s full name; (2) the full name of the defendant at the time of arrest, conviction or diversion, if different from the defendant’s current name; (3) the defendant’s sex, race, and date of birth; (4) the crime for which the defendant was arrested, convicted, or diverted; (5) the date of the defendant’s arrest, conviction, or diversion; (6) an acknowledgement that all assessed costs, fees and fines associated with the conviction or diversion agreement sought to be expunged have been paid; and (7) the identity of the convicting court, arresting law enforcement agency or diverting authority. The Municipal Court may prescribe a fee to be charged as costs for a person petitioning for an order of expungement pursuant to this section. Any person who may have relevant information about the petitioner may testify at the hearing. The court may inquire into the background of the petitioner and shall have access to any reports or records relating to the petitioner that are on file with the Secretary of Corrections or the prisoner review board.
(i) Hearing. At the hearing on the petition, the court shall order the petitioner’s arrest record, conviction, or diversion expunged if the court finds that:
(1) The petitioner has not been convicted of a felony in the past two years and no proceeding involving any such crime is presently pending or being instituted against the petitioner;
(2) The circumstances and behavior of the petitioner warrant the expungement; and
(3) The expungement is consistent with the public welfare; and
(4) All assessed costs, fees and fines associated with the conviction or diversion agreement sought to be expunged have been paid.
(j) Expungement Order – Notification – Effect of Order – Nondisclosure Exceptions. When the court has ordered an arrest record, conviction or diversion expunged, the order of expungement shall state the information required to be contained in the petition. The clerk of the court shall send a certified copy of the order of expungement to the Kansas Bureau of Investigation which shall notify the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Secretary of Corrections and any other criminal justice agency which may have a record of the arrest, conviction, or diversion. If the case was appealed from Municipal Court, the clerk of the district court shall send a certified copy of the order of expungement to the Municipal Court. The Municipal Court shall order the case expunged once the certified copy of the order of expungement is received. After the order of expungement is entered, the petitioner shall be treated as not having been arrested, convicted or diverted of the crime, except that:
(1) Upon conviction for any subsequent crime, the conviction that was expunged may be considered as a prior conviction in determining the sentence to be imposed;
(2) The petitioner shall disclose that the arrest, conviction, or diversion occurred if asked about previous arrests, convictions, or diversions:
(i) In any application for licensure as a private detective, private detective agency, certification as a firearms trainer pursuant to K.S.A. 75-7b21 , and amendments thereto, or employment as a detective with a private detective agency, as defined by K.S.A. 75-7b01 , and amendments thereto; as security personnel with a private patrol operator, as defined by K.S.A. 75-7b01 , and amendments thereto; or with an institution, as defined in K.S.A. 76-12a01 , and amendments thereto, of the Department for Aging and Disability Services;
(ii) In any application for admission, or for an order of reinstatement, to the practice of law in this State;
(iii) To aid in determining the petitioner’s qualifications for employment with the Kansas Lottery or for work in sensitive areas within the Kansas Lottery as deemed appropriate by the Executive Director of the Kansas Lottery;
(iv) To aid in determining the petitioner’s qualifications for Executive Director of the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, for employment with the Commission or for work in sensitive areas in parimutuel racing as deemed appropriate by the Executive Director of the Commission, or to aid in determining qualifications for licensure or renewal of licensure by the Commission;
(v) To aid in determining the petitioner’s qualifications for the following under the Kansas Expanded Lottery Act:
(A) Lottery gaming facility manager or prospective manager, racetrack gaming facility manager or prospective manager, licensee or certificate holder; or
(B) An officer, director, employee, owner, agent or contractor thereof;
(vi) Upon application for a commercial driver’s license under K.S.A. 8-2125 through 8-2142 , and amendments thereto;
(vii) To aid in determining the petitioner’s qualifications to be an employee of the State Gaming Agency;
(viii) To aid in determining the petitioner’s qualifications to be an employee of a tribal gaming commission or to hold a license issued pursuant to a tribal-state gaming compact;
(ix) In any application for registration as a broker-dealer, agent, investment adviser or investment adviser representative, all as defined in K.S.A. 17-12a102 and amendments thereto;
(x) In any application for employment as a law enforcement officer, as defined in K.S.A. 22-2202 or 74-5602 , and amendments thereto;
(xi) For applications to aid in determining the petitioner’s qualifications for a license to carry a concealed weapon pursuant to the Personal and Family Protection Act, K.S.A. 75-7c01 et seq. and amendments thereto; or
(xii) For applications received on and after July 1, 2016, to aid in determining the petitioner’s qualifications for a license issued by the Kansas Attorney General to act as a bail enforcement agent;
(3) The court, in the order of expungement, may specify other circumstances under which the arrest, conviction or diversion is to be disclosed; and
(4) The conviction may be disclosed in a subsequent prosecution for an offense which requires as an element of such offense a prior conviction of the type expunged.
(k) Notification of Expungement Opportunity. Whenever a person is convicted of an ordinance violation, pleads guilty and pays a fine for such a violation, is placed on parole or probation or is granted a suspended sentence for such a violation, the person shall be informed of the ability to expunge the arrest records or conviction. Whenever a person enters into a diversion agreement, the person shall be informed of the ability to expunge the diversion.
(l) Employment/License Application. Subject to the disclosures required pursuant to subsection (j) of this section, in any application for employment, license or other civil right or privilege, or any appearance as a witness, a person whose arrest records, conviction, or diversion of an offense has been expunged may state that such person has never been arrested, convicted, or diverted of such offense.
(m) Disclosure of Records Related to Expungement. Whenever the record of any arrest, conviction, or diversion has been expunged, the custodian of the records of arrest, conviction, diversion and incarceration relating to that crime shall not disclose the existence of such records, except when requested by:
(1) The person whose record was expunged;
(2) A private detective agency or a private patrol operator, as defined by K.S.A. 75-7b01 , and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made in conjunction with an application for employment with such agency or operator by the person whose record has been expunged;
(3) A court, upon a showing of a subsequent conviction of the person whose record has been expunged;
(4) The Secretary of the Department for Aging and Disability Services, or a designee of the Secretary, for the purpose of obtaining information relating to employment in an institution, as defined in K.S.A. 76-12a01 , and amendments thereto, of the Department for Aging and Disability Services of any person whose record has been expunged;
(5) A person entitled to such information pursuant to the terms of the expungement order;
(6) A prosecuting attorney, and such request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made in conjunction with a prosecution of an offense that requires a prior conviction as one of the elements of such offense;
(7) The Supreme Court, the clerk or disciplinary administrator thereof, the State Board for Admission of Attorneys or the State Board for Discipline of Attorneys, and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made in conjunction with an application for admission, or for an order of reinstatement, to the practice of law in this State by the person whose record has been expunged;
(8) The Kansas Lottery, and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made to aid in determining qualifications for employment with the Kansas Lottery or for work in sensitive areas within the Kansas Lottery as deemed appropriate by the Executive Director of the Kansas Lottery;
(9) The Governor or the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, or a designee of the Commission, and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made to aid in determining qualifications for Executive Director of the Commission, for employment with the Commission, for work in sensitive areas in parimutuel racing as deemed appropriate by the Executive Director of the Commission or for licensure, renewal of licensure or continued licensure by the Commission;
(10) The Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, or a designee of the Commission, and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made to aid in determining qualifications of the following under the Kansas Expanded Lottery Act:
(i) Lottery gaming facility managers and prospective managers, racetrack gaming facility managers and prospective managers, licensees and certificate holders; and
(ii) Their officers, directors, employees, owners, agents and contractors;
(11) The State Gaming Agency, and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made to aid in determining qualifications: (i) to be an employee of the State Gaming Agency; or (ii) to be an employee of a tribal gaming commission or to hold a license issued pursuant to a tribal-state gaming compact;
(12) The Kansas Securities Commissioner, or a designee of the Commissioner, and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made in conjunction with an application for registration as a broker-dealer, agent, investment adviser or investment adviser representative by such agency and the application was submitted by the person whose record has been expunged;
(13) The Attorney General, and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made to aid in determining qualifications for a license to carry a concealed weapon pursuant to the Personal and Family Protection Act or a license to act as a bail enforcement agent;
(14) The Kansas Sentencing Commission;
(15) The Kansas Commission on Peace Officers’ Standards and Training and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made to aid in determining certification eligibility for employment as a law enforcement officer; or
(16) A law enforcement agency and the request is accompanied by a statement that the request is being made to aid in determining eligibility for employment as a law enforcement officer. (Ord. 20206 § 9, 9-10-19; Ord. 20027 § 1, 10-4-16. Formerly 2.110.660.)
State Law References: Similar State statute, K.S.A. 12-4516 .
