(a) Rates and charges for sewer maintenance, sewage transportation, and sewage treatment shall be established by ordinance in amounts sufficient to pay costs and expenses of the following three general classifications:
(1) Sewage disposal and treatment; and
(2) Sewage transportation; and
(3) Sewer operation and maintenance.
All such rates shall be reviewed at least every five years or more frequently at the discretion of the City, except rates for sewage disposal and treatment, which rates shall be reviewed, altered, or amended as other rates within the City limits.
(b) At the discretion of the City Manager or Governing Body, the connection fees listed in this section may be waived for economic development projects which, due to their unusual nature or magnitude, offer extraordinary benefits to the community. The City Manager may waive up to 25 percent of the fees. Governing Body approval shall be required for approval for any waiver in excess of 25 percent.
(c) The Utilities Director shall determine the system connection fee for each consumer making application for a new service connection. The system connection fee shall be paid prior to connection as part of the application process. Such system connection fees shall be based on the system’s value, total capacity, and associated water meter size. Applications for sewer connections for which there is no associated water service application shall have a sewer connection fee which is calculated on the basis of projected flows from other sources approximating the water service size. System connection fees are in addition to other rates, charges, deposits, or fees established by law. The system connection fees for all classifications and meter sizes shall be paid prior to connection. These fees shall include all materials and labor by City personnel.
The system connection fees for meters larger than eight inches shall be determined by the Utilities Director based on projected flows. (Ord. 20089 § 89, 10-17-17.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
