As used in this chapter:
“Capital improvements plan” means the five-year plan for capital improvements, adopted annually by the City Council, describing the approximate location, size, time of availability and estimated cost of capital improvement projects and identifies sources of funding for capital improvement projects.
“Collection” means the point at which the trafficway impact fee is actually paid over to the City.
“Commitment” means earmarking trafficway impact fees to fund or partially fund trafficway capital improvements serving new development projects.
“Dwelling unit” means one or more rooms in a building or a portion of a room, designed, intended to be used, or actually used for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping quarters, and containing one kitchen only, and includes a mobile home, but not hotel or motel units.
“Impose” means to determine that a particular development project is subject to the collection of trafficway impact fees as a condition of development approval.
“New development” or “development project” means and includes any project undertaken for the purpose of development, including without limitation a project involving the issuance of a permit for construction, reconstruction, or change of use, but not a project involving the issuance of a permit to operate or to remodel, rehabilitate, or improve an existing structure, nor the rebuilding of a structure destroyed or damaged by an act of God.
“Nonresidential development project” means all development other than residential development projects.
“Residential development project” means any development undertaken to create a new dwelling unit or units.
“Trafficway capital improvement” means land or facilities for the purposes of transportation and transit, including without limitation streets, street lighting and traffic-control devices and supporting improvements, roads, overpasses, bridges, and related facilities. Trafficway capital improvement also includes design, engineering, inspection, testing, planning, legal land acquisition and all other costs associated with construction of a public trafficway. Provided, however, trafficway capital improvement shall not include residential two-lane streets or roads which primarily serve residential development.
“Trafficway impact fee” means any monetary exaction imposed by the City as a condition of or in connection with approval of a development project for the purpose of defraying all or some of the cost of or repayment of costs previously expended from other City funds for trafficway capital improvements relating to the project.
“Trafficway impact fee district” means the geographic area within which trafficway impact fees are collected and expended for a public trafficway serving development projects within such area. (Ord. 18273 § 6, 6-22-04. Code 1995 § 130-765.)
