The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
“Contract” means any contract, agreement, purchase order or arrangement required or permitted by the ordinances of the City to which the City shall be a contracting party and which shall hereafter be entered into or renewed, except the following:
(1) Imprest accounts in the nature of petty cash funds;
(2) Any bona fide religious institutions with respect to any qualifications for employment when such qualifications are related to a bona fide religious purpose; and
(3) Any type of employment where religious creed, national origin or ancestry would be considered an essential qualification for employment.
“Contracting agency” means any department, agency, commission or authority of the City which enters into contracts.
“Contractor” means any individual, partnership, corporation, association or other entity, or any combination of the foregoing, which enters into a contract with the City.
“Disadvantaged business enterprise” means small business concerns controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals or women.
“Minority business enterprise” means a business at least 51 percent of which is owned and operated by a minority or by minority group members or, in the case of a publicly owned business or corporation, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by minority group members.
“Performance of work” means the furnishing of any personal service, labor, materials or equipment used in the fulfillment of a contractor’s obligation under a City contract.
“Person” means any natural person, contractor, subcontractor, supplier of goods or services, or any agent, servant or employee of any of the foregoing. As used in this article, the word “person” is a generic term unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
“Subcontractor” means, in a construction project, any individual, partnership, corporation, association or other entity, or any combination of the foregoing, who shall undertake, by virtue of a separate contract directly with the general contractor awarded the construction project, to fulfill all or any part of any contractor’s obligation, exclusive of a contract solely to furnish supplies.
“Women business enterprise” means a business at least 51 percent of which is owned and operated by a woman or by women or, in the case of a publicly owned business or corporation, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by a woman or women. (Ord. 20568 § 7, 6-17-25.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
