(a) Standards for Nonresidential Zoning Districts.
(1) Building Setbacks. A minimum setback of 20 feet from public street rights-of-way for SE Monroe Street, SE 15th Street, and SE 17th Street shall be provided for all principal and accessory structures.
(2) Building height limited to 32 feet.
(3) Open Storage. Any open storage visible from the street or adjacent to residential uses shall be screened to substantially reduce visual impact by fencing, landscaping, or other appropriate means.
(4) Fences. No fence or freestanding wall greater than four feet in height may be constructed within 20 feet of the public right-of-way for SE Monroe Street, SE 15th Street, and SE 17th Street except on parcels on which an existing principal building is located 20 feet or less from said right-of-way, in which case said fence shall be located no closer to the street right-of-way than the principal building. Decorative open fences, constructed of metal, masonry, or similar material, greater than four feet in height may be permitted by the Planning Director upon review of the site and fence plans.
(5) Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs shall have a solid base equal to or greater in width than 80 percent of the widest part of the sign and shall not exceed a height of 10 feet and sign area of 60 square feet. Electronic message centers may be contained within a freestanding sign but the area of the electronic message center portion of the sign shall not exceed 32 square feet. Billboard signs as defined by TMC 18.10.180 are not permitted.
(b) Standards for Residential Zoning Districts.
(1) Building height limited to 32 feet.
(2) New construction of any principal building shall:
(i) Be of a massing and orientation similar to other buildings on the same block; and
(ii) Include features such as pitched roofs, front porches, vertically oriented windows, and materials similar to those of other buildings on the same block; and
(iii) Have a front setback no less than five feet and no greater than 25 feet.
(3) Residential additions shall be of an architectural design compatible with the existing principal building (i.e., roofs, building orientation, garages face alley and not street, etc.).
(4) The form and materials of accessory buildings shall be architecturally compatible with principal building unless located to be invisible from the public street.
(5) Accessory buildings shall be no closer to the front property line than the principal building.
(6) For sites with alley access, vehicular access shall be from the alley and not from the street. (Ord. 20596 § 5, 9-9-25.)
