(a) Upon written request from the Fire Chief, the Chief of EMS, or their designees, AMR shall provide certain material data elements to calls within Contract Zone 1. These data elements include ALS/BLS response, response times, unit and triage. AMR shall respond to such requests within 30 days. Failure to provide the requested information within 30 days shall result in a penalty of $100.00 per week until the information is provided. If a request is for material data elements that are not typically included in reports generated pursuant to Shawnee County Contract C207-2016 as it relates to calls within Contract Zone 1 needs additional time beyond 30 days to respond to such request, AMR may request additional time before the initial 30 days expire, the amount of which to be agreed upon by the parties. TFD agrees that any cost associated with the development of a new report that is not currently available will be reimbursed to AMR if such report can be developed; provided, that AMR first provides TFD a written estimate of the associated costs and obtains approval from TFD. AMR’s response time will be stayed while TFD reviews such estimates.
(b) AMR and the Fire Chief, the Chief of EMS and/or their designees shall meet no less than monthly for call review and quality assurance/improvement of selected calls to include, but not be limited to, severe trauma, cardiac arrest, or similar types of calls occurring in the City of Topeka limits. The intent is to look at the entirety of the call for improvements to address training, equipment needs and general system improvements.
(c) AMR agrees to provide notification through the County Protocol Committee to the Fire Chief and Chief of EMS concerning anticipated or desired changes to protocol, equipment, or medications that are not a result of national supply shortage or emergency. Further, AMR agrees that all proposed protocol changes that are not a result of a national supply shortage or emergency will be submitted for review to the County Protocol Committee prior to submission to the Medical Director. After submission to the Medical Director, the Fire Chief, Chief of EMS and/or their County Protocol Committee member shall be given the opportunity to attend meetings to discuss proposed protocol changes in the event the Medical Director changes the proposed protocols submitted to him/her. Notice of such meeting shall be provided as soon as reasonable based on the schedule of the Medical Director.
(d) Upon reasonable request and subject to available resources, AMR agrees to respond and provide a stand-by/posted advanced life support ambulance upon request of the Fire Chief or designees when there is reason to believe a life-threatening public emergency presently exists to include fire, rescue and hazmat incidents. TFD agrees to release ambulance as soon as possible when the life-threatening public emergency no longer exists.
(e) In January of each calendar year, AMR shall provide copies of all written mutual aid agreements for ambulance service in the City of Topeka or provide written notice that no such agreements exist. Failure to submit this information by the last business day in January shall result in a penalty of $100.00 per day until submitted.
(f) AMR agrees to the use of designated dispatch radio channels for EMS operations within the City of Topeka. Further, AMR agrees that AMR units and dispatch are responsible for monitoring the designated channel while on scene.
(g) AMR will pursue an option if available to provide TFD command staff designated by the Fire Chief with access to view the availability of all on-duty AMR units in real time. If there is cost directly associated with the development, implementation or annual maintenance of this request, AMR will provide TFD a written estimate of the expense to seek approval for the reimbursement of this request. TFD agrees that any party with access to this system may be required to complete initial and annual training as deemed reasonably appropriate by AMR compliance or other regulatory department and consistent with such trainings required of AMR staff with similar view access. Failure of those individuals to complete training will result in revocation of rights and privileges to view the data. (Ord. 20613 § 6, 12-2-25; Ord. 20535 § 6, 12-10-24; Ord. 20469 § 6, 12-12-23; Ord. 20399 § 6, 12-20-22; Ord. 20331 § 6, 12-14-21; Ord. 20275 § 6, 12-15-20.)
