The districts and boundaries thereof are reclassified in accordance with the following:
(a) A single-family dwelling district converts to R-1 single-family dwelling district.
(b) B single-family dwelling district converts to R-2 single-family dwelling district.
(c) C two-family dwelling district converts to M-1 two-family dwelling district.
(d) D multiple-family dwelling district converts to M-2 multiple-family dwelling district.
(e) All remaining property classified E multiple-family dwelling district converts to M-3 multiple-family dwelling district.
(f) E-1 high-rise multiple-family dwelling district converts to M-4 multiple-family dwelling district. M-4 multiple-family dwelling district converts to M-3 multiple-family dwelling district.
(g) D&O multiple-family dwelling and office district converts to either M-2 multiple-family dwelling district or O&I-1 office and institutional district.
(h) F neighborhood shopping district converts to C-2 commercial district.
(i) G commercial district converts to C-4 commercial district.
(j) H business district converts to C-5 commercial district. C-5 commercial district converts to D-1 downtown district.
(k) I light industrial district converts to I-1 light industrial district.
(l) J heavy industrial district converts to I-2 heavy industrial district.
(m) U-1 university district converts to U-1 university district.
(n) U-2 university community district converts to M-3 multiple-family dwelling district.
(o) A, B, C, D, and E single-family, two-family and multiple-family dwelling districts and community unit plan district, D&OP multiple-family dwelling and office park district, G commercial and shopping center unit district, G commercial and planned business center district, I-P industrial park district, and planned unit development convert to the PUD planned unit development district. Those developments heretofore assigned a planned unit district in conjunction with another district as set forth above, and assigned the PUD district upon the adoption of these regulations, shall be restricted to the use, dimensional, and general provisions of the conversion district of the classification in which said property was heretofore assigned.
(p) U-3 university service district, and conditional use permits (all City of Topeka); and special use permits (as issued by either the City of Topeka or Shawnee County) shall cease as classifications and as permit eligible uses effective with the conversion date of these regulations; and all existing uses as heretofore provided for by the district and/or by the aforementioned permits of record may continue pursuant to the provisions of TMC 18.50.040 ; and further, any conditions, limitations, stipulations and/or other provisions set forth within the resolution granting a site-specific conditional or special use permit shall continue to apply and remain in effect with the adoption of these regulations.
(q) Where newly created district classifications are provided herein, the boundary of such districts shall be established by ordinance within the City of Topeka, Kansas, all in accordance with Chapter 18.245 TMC. (Ord. 20062 § 4, 4-18-17.)
