(a) Generally.
(1) All signs and structures supporting signs shall be placed in or upon private property except as expressly permitted and shall be securely built, constructed and erected in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
(2) No portion of a sign surface or sign structure shall be located on or over a public right-of-way except as provided in this chapter.
(3) No sign shall be erected which is connected to or obstructs any portion of a fire escape or windows or doors leading to a fire escape.
(4) No sign shall obstruct any opening to such an extent that light or ventilation is reduced to a point below that required by the building code.
(b) Illumination. Illumination for types of signs is regulated in TMC 18.10.130 , 18.10.160 , and 18.10.180 . In no case shall the light from an illuminated sign create a negative effect on residential uses in direct line-of-sight of the sign.
(c) Sight Distance at Intersections. No sign that obstructs the view is allowed within the sight distance triangle of a street intersection.
(d) Other Applicable Regulations.
(1) All signs shall be installed, erected, constructed, hung, or altered in accordance with the building and fire codes adopted by the City.
(2) Any structure that is built or constructed and supports or is capable of supporting a sign shall be constructed in compliance with the building and fire codes adopted by the City.
(3) A sign structure shall include the foundation and base, the poles or pylons that support the sign, any structural extensions that support a sign or sign cabinet, and any structural framework that supports a sign, sign face, or sign cabinet.
(4) Design documents for the structure that have been prepared, sealed, signed and dated by a structural engineer and designed in accordance with the building code must be submitted for review and approval with the sign permit application.
(5) All signs projecting over the public right-of-way (PROW) vertical clearance must be maintained as required by the currently adopted codes and ordinances for use of the PROW in accordance with the building code.
(6) All signs projecting over walkways, sidewalks, or other areas in front of a building, or other active area where pedestrians have access, shall maintain a minimum of eight feet of vertical clearance and as required by the currently adopted codes and ordinances for use of the PROW in accordance with the building code.
(7) Projecting wall signs shall project only as allowed in compliance with the building code.
(8) Awnings, canopies, awning signs, and canopy signs shall be securely attached to and supported by the building to which they are attached and shall properly be maintained in such manner. (Ord. 20207 § 8, 9-10-19.)
