(a) All development in the X districts shall comply with the density and dimensional standards in TMC 18.60.020 .
(b) Within the North Crossings and traditional neighborhood areas as designated by the comprehensive metropolitan plan, all new development, including permitted commercial, office, institutional, multifamily residential, industrial uses, or combination thereof, or change of uses with exterior modifications, shall be consistent with the following applicable design standards:
(1) Comprehensive Metropolitan Plan. Building design guidelines as adopted within the applicable neighborhood plan of the comprehensive metropolitan plan.
(2) Setbacks, Massing, and Form. Minimize building setbacks within traditional neighborhood or downtown district settings so as to reflect and align with existing setbacks of buildings on the block or facing block. Massing and form of building shall also be compatible with buildings on block, facing block, or neighborhood.
(3) Building Types. Permitted building types shall include a rear yard building that occupies the front of its lot at full width, a side yard building that occupies one side of the lot at full depth, or a courtyard building that occupies all or most of the edges of its lot while internally defining one or more private spaces.
(4) Parking Lots. Parking lots shall not dominate the frontage of pedestrian-oriented and image streets or conflict with pedestrian crossings. No parking space shall be closer to the primary frontage street than the building.
(5) Facades. Blank walls in excess of 50 feet shall be avoided. Buildings with multiple storefronts should be unified in character, compatible with any upper floors, and pedestrian-oriented.
(6) Outdoor Activity. Buildings should accommodate outdoor activity with balconies, arcades, terraces, decks and courtyards for patrons’, residents’, or workers’ interaction to the extent reasonably feasible.
(7) Outdoor Cafes. Restaurants should be encouraged to operate outdoor cafes on sidewalks, within buildings’ setbacks or courtyards; provided, that pedestrian circulation and access to store entrances is not impaired, the space is well kept, and street furniture/coverings are compatible with architectural character of the building/block.
(8) Pedestrian Circulation. Adequate pedestrian circulation must be maintained at all times. Pedestrian linkages between parking lots, alleys, parks, and the street or building fronts shall be provided for within the public right-of-way or by dedicated easement.
(9) Access. Vehicular access shall be consistent with adopted traffic access management standards and use rear lot access where applicable.
(10) Transition Yards and Landscaping. Where a commercial or industrial lot abuts a residential use(s), a landscaped yard consisting of, but not limited to, trees, vegetation, wood fencing, landscaped earthen berm, or other plantings shall be provided for as a visual buffer that creates spatial separation and meets crime prevention through environmental design principles. Front yard setback areas shall be landscaped.
(11) Open Storage. Any open storage visible from the street, adjacent to residential uses or within image areas designated by the comprehensive metropolitan plan shall be screened to substantially reduce visual impact by fencing, landscaping, or other appropriate means.
(12) Fences. For all office and commercial uses within the X-1, X-2, and X-3 mixed use districts, no fence, hedge or freestanding wall greater than four feet in height may be constructed within a front yard setback beyond the front face of a structure on an adjoining lot. Where no structure exists on an adjoining lot, no fence, hedge or freestanding wall greater than four feet in height may be constructed within a front yard parallel to the front face of the principal structure or building. Decorative open fences, constructed of wrought or cast iron, wood, or masonry, or similar material, greater than four feet in height may be permitted by the Planning Director upon review of the site and fence plans. Fences, walls, or hedges may be erected up to a height of eight feet in any side or rear yard where not in conflict with these regulations. For a corner lot, the fence height shall not exceed four feet in height beyond the face of a principal structure on an adjoining lot. Fences in conjunction with all residential, institutional, and industrial uses shall be allowed consistent with TMC 18.210.040 .
(c) Within the North Crossings and traditional neighborhood areas as designated by the comprehensive metropolitan plan, detached single-family, duplex, and triplex unit development shall be consistent with the residential design guidelines as adopted within the applicable neighborhood plan of the comprehensive metropolitan plan and M-1 two-family zoning district minimum yard requirements.
(d) The Planning Director may waive any of the above-listed design standards if he determines it to be unnecessary to the scope and nature of the proposed development.
(e) New development within nontraditional neighborhood areas shall be consistent with applicable site plan regulations of this division.
(f) Any property owner who is adversely impacted by a decision of the Planning Director regarding compliance or noncompliance with the dimensional and performance standards contained herein may appeal the Planning Director’s decision to the Topeka Planning Commission. (Ord. 19921 § 134, 9-23-14.)
Cross References: Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 ; Planning Commission, Chapter 2.225 TMC.
