“Fabrication” means that part of manufacturing which relates to stamping, cutting or otherwise shaping processed materials into objects and may include the assembly of standard component parts, but does not include extracting, refining, or other initial processing of basic raw materials.
“Family” means an individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or legal adoption, or a group of not more than five persons (excluding servants) not related by blood or marriage, living together as a single housekeeping unit with common kitchen facilities in a dwelling unit.
“Farm winery” means a facility for the manufacture and storage of domestic table wine and domestic fortified wine for distribution, resale or wholesale, on or off premises, with a capacity of not more than 100,000 gallons per year; does not allow for agricultural production.
“Fence” means an artificial barrier, constructed from normally used fencing materials, that is erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
“Floor area, gross” means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a building, including interior balconies, mezzanines and accessory buildings. All horizontal dimensions are to be made between the exterior faces of the building walls, or in the case of a common wall separating two buildings, it shall be measured from the center of such common wall.
“Floor area, net” means the sum of the areas of the several floors of a structure, as measured by the exterior faces of the walls, including fully enclosed porches and the like as measured by the exterior limits thereof, but excluding (1) garage space which is in the basement of a building or, in the case of garage space accessory to a dwelling, is at grade, (2) basement and cellar areas devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the structure, and (3) areas elsewhere in the structure devoted to housing mechanical equipment customarily located in the basement or cellar such as heating and air conditioning equipment, plumbing, electrical equipment, laundry facilities, and storage facilities.
“Floor area ratio” means a mathematical expression determined by dividing the gross floor area of a building by the area of the lot on which it is located, as:
Gross floor area/Lot area = Floor area ratio
“Fraternity or sorority house, collegiate” means a building used by an association of students, meeting periodically, limited to members, normally having culinary and sleeping facilities.
“Frontage” means any lot line abutting a public street right-of-way. (Ord. 20062 § 10, 4-18-17.)
