(a) Authority. The Utilities Director and other employees of the Water Division are authorized to enforce all provisions of this article.
(b) First Violation. Any consumer who violates any provisions of this article shall be issued a written notice of the violation. The written notice shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the consumer of record and to any other person known to the City who is responsible for the violation and its corrections. Such notice shall describe the violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified time as the City determines is reasonable under the circumstances. Failure to receive such notice shall not invalidate further actions by the City. If the order is not complied with, the City may terminate water service to the customer. If water service is terminated, a charge for disconnection, reconnection and restoration of service shall be made. The charge will be for the actual costs of terminating and restoring service plus the appropriate amount listed below:
(1) Residential: $50.00.
(2) Commercial/industrial: An amount equal to 100 percent of the average monthly water bill for the previous 12 months.
(c) Second and Subsequent Violations. In the event of additional violations of this article, the City will terminate water service to the consumer and a charge for terminating and restoring service will be made. The charge will be for the actual costs of terminating and restoring the service, plus:
(1) For second violations, the highest of $200.00 or an amount equal to 200 percent of the average monthly water bill for the previous 12 months.
(2) For any additional violations after the second violation, the highest of $300.00 or an amount equal to 300 percent of the average monthly water bill for the previous 12 months.
Any customer who has service disconnected pursuant to this section may appeal the cost of terminating and restoring service in accordance with Chapter 2.45 TMC.
(d) Code Violation. Any violation of the water conservation plan shall also be considered a violation of this code and may be punishable by proceedings in Municipal Court. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished accordingly. (Ord. 20089 § 31, 10-17-17.)
