Subject to Appendix A , Section A2-29 , as amended, the following process shall be followed when filling vacancies in the offices of Mayor or Councilmember:
(a) Within one week of a vacancy in the office of Mayor or Councilmember, the City Clerk shall cause to be published in the official City newspaper a notice that applications are being sought for the filling of the open position.
(b) The deadline for applications shall be at 5:00 p.m. on the day two weeks from the date of publication of the notice for the office of Councilmember and four weeks from the date of publication of the notice for the office of Mayor. Applications shall be submitted to the City Clerk.
(c) The application shall include the following information:
(1) A statement of qualifications and personal background.
(2) A statement addressing why the applicant wishes to serve in the office of Mayor or Councilmember (as applicable).
(3) A statement addressing what the applicant sees as the number one problem facing Topeka City government and how the applicant would seek to address the problem if chosen to serve.
(d) Application for the office of Mayor shall include the $100.00 filing fee or a petition signed by 100 qualified electors of the City or one percent of the cast vote in the last City general election. Application for the office of district Councilmember shall include the $50.00 fee or a petition signed by 50 qualified electors of the Council district.
(e) Unless an alternative date and/or time is established by the Governing Body, the members shall interview each applicant at the next Governing Body meeting following the application deadline.
(f) At least one day prior to the interview date, the Mayor and Councilmembers may each submit one question to be asked of all applicants during the interviews.
(g) Interviews shall be conducted in the order that applications are received.
(h) Interviews shall consist of an opening statement by the applicant and the asking and answering of all submitted questions.
(i) At the conclusion of the interviews the Governing Body may conduct an election to fill the vacant position, subject to the following rules:
(1) The election shall be conducted only during a Governing Body meeting. The election may be deferred to a subsequent meeting. In no event shall an election be deferred later than the next Governing Body meeting.
(2) Each Councilmember and the Mayor shall vote for one person on each ballot by indicating in writing his or her choice and signing the ballot before submitting it to the City Clerk.
(3) The City Clerk shall read the result of each ballot.
(4) Balloting shall end any time one applicant receives a majority vote of the remaining members of the Governing Body.
(5) If no applicant receives a sufficient number of votes, additional ballots shall be cast until one of the applicants receives a sufficient number of votes or the matter is deferred until a date certain, which shall not be later than the next Governing Body meeting.
(6) The Council and Mayor may confer after any ballot in any manner consistent with the Kansas Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 20009 § 3, 6-21-16.)
Cross References: City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 .
