“Manufacture” means to engage in the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products including the assembling of component parts, the manufacturing of products, and the blending of materials such as lubricating oils, plastics, resins or liquors.
“Manufactured home” means a structure which is subject to the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 5403 .
“Manufacturing/processing, type I” means a business engaged in the manufacturing of finished parts or products, primarily from previously prepared materials. Typical uses include: food manufacturing (excluding slaughterhouses and rendering); computer and electronic product manufacturing/assembly; electrical equipment, small appliance, component manufacturing/assembly; upholstery shops; ceramic shops; candle-making; custom jewelry manufacturing; production of instruments and lenses for medical, dental, optical, scientific and other professional purposes; musical instrument manufacturing; sign production; millwork and cabinet shops; and furniture and related product manufacturing/assembly.
“Manufacturing/processing, type II” means a business engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared materials or from lightweight nonferrous materials, of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging of such products; and incidental storage, sales and distribution of such products. Typical uses include: apparel and garment factories, large appliance manufacturing and assembly, beverage manufacturing and bottling (excluding microbreweries), glass and clay products manufacturing, boat building, jewelry manufacturing, laundry and dry cleaning plants, leather products manufacturing, meat cutting and wholesale storage, fabrication of metal products, transportation and large equipment manufacturing, pharmaceutical and toiletries manufacturing, monument and grave marker manufacturing, rubber and plastics products manufacturing, chemical manufacturing (excluding those considered type III), repair and servicing of industrial and large commercial equipment, tobacco products manufacturing, and toy manufacturing.
“Manufacturing/processing, type III” means a business engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of products or materials predominantly from raw or extracted materials, or a use involved in storage or manufacturing processes that may have an adverse impact on surrounding properties. Typical uses include: fat rendering plants; poultry and animal dressing; tanneries; stockyards; slaughterhouses; distillation of bones; garbage or dead animal incineration, reduction or dumping; glue manufacturing; pulp processing; steel works; metal smelting; acid, ammonia, chlorine, insecticides, poisons, or arsenal manufacturing or whole-sale storage; central mixing plant for concrete, cement or asphalt; cement, lime, or gypsum manufacturing; fertilizer manufacturing; gas manufacturing; explosive manufacturing or wholesale storage; and petroleum refineries or wholesale storage of gasoline.
“Market, farmer’s” means an occasional or periodic market held in an open area or in a structure where groups of individual sellers offer the retail sale of fresh produce, seasonal fruits, meats, dairy products, prepared foods and beverages, fresh flowers, and arts and crafts items (but not to include second-hand goods) dispensed from booths or vehicles.
“Medical care facility, type I” means a dwelling or portion thereof, and premises, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, in which reception, accommodation, board, residential and personal care, nursing care (simple, supervised, or skilled) and treatment for profit or not for profit, are provided to a maximum of two individuals who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care, but who may require nursing care and domiciliary care; and who are unrelated by blood, adoption, or marriage to the caregivers, administrator or owner. Said facility may be staffed with licensed nursing personnel and other staff as required, and operate on a 24-hour-a-day basis.
“Medical care facility, type II” means a dwelling or portion thereof, and premises, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, where accommodation, board, residential and personal care, and nursing care (simple, supervised, or skilled) are provided to three or more individuals who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care, but who may require nursing care and domiciliary care due to functional impairments typically caused by aging, mental retardation, or mental health issues; and who are unrelated by blood, adoption, or marriage to the caregivers, administrator or owner. Said facility may be staffed with licensed nursing personnel and other staff as required, and operated on a 24-hour-a-day basis.
“Metes and bounds” means a system of describing and identifying land by measures (metes) and direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference.
“Micro-alcohol production” means a facility in which beer, wine, or spirits are brewed, fermented, or distilled for distribution and consumption, and possesses the appropriate license from the State; includes micro-breweries, farm wineries and micro-distilleries. Tap/tasting rooms are permitted as an accessory use.
“Micro-brewery” means a facility for the production and packaging of beer and/or hard cider for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or off premises, with a capacity of not more than 15,000 barrels per year.
“Micro-distillery” means a facility for the production and packaging of spirits for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or off premises, with a capacity of not more than 50,000 gallons per year.
“Mobile home” means a manufactured structure constructed for dwelling purposes and which is not subject to the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards as established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 5403 . “Mobile homes” refer to manufactured units built before June 15, 1976.
“Mobile home, ANSI certified” means a mobile home which has certification as being in compliance with Parts B to E, inclusive, of the standard for mobile homes as developed by the American National Standards Committee on Mobile Homes and Recreational Vehicles and designated as ANSI No. A119.1 1975, all pursuant to the provisions of K.S.A. 75-1220 .
“Mobile home park” means a parcel or tract of land under single ownership which has been planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for dwelling purposes.
“Mobile retail vendor” means a mobile food vendor, sidewalk vendor and a transient vendor as defined at TMC 5.115.010 .
“Monopole tower” means a communication tower consisting of a single pole, constructed without guy wires and ground anchors.
“Mortuary” means a place for the storage of human bodies prior to burial or cremation.
“Motel” means a building or group of buildings offering transient lodging accommodations normally on a daily rate to the general public, where access to each room is provided directly by an exterior door, and with or without accessory uses, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, or recreational facilities.
“Museum” means an establishment operated as a repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities or objects of interest or works of art, not including the regular sale or distribution of the objects collected. (Ord. 20062 § 12, 4-18-17.)
