(a) Late Charge. If a person obtains a permit within 30 days after either the expiration of an existing permit term or the date on which a permit is required, no late penalty will be charged; if, however, the applicant fails to make application within such 30-day period, a late charge as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule shall be assessed for each month the applicant is delinquent in making application, not to exceed a total of $24.00. The late charge shall be added to and collected with the regular permit. Any portion of a month shall be considered as a full month for the purposes of late charge computation.
(b) Application and Renewal Forms. The Chief of Police shall be authorized to mail application forms for permits and reminder notices to any animal owner of which the Chief of Police has record.
(c) Delinquency Notice. A complaint alleging violation of the renewal provisions of a permit issued under this chapter and a notice to appear shall be issued against the owner of a dog, cat or miniature pot-belly pig subject to, but not in compliance with, such renewal provisions. A courtesy delinquency notice will be issued to the owner by electronic mail and/or United States mail, first class, postage prepaid, at the last known addresses of said owner. This notice shall include at least the following:
(1) A title that it is a delinquency notice;
(2) A statement of late payment charges the owner must pay; and
(3) A warning that failure to purchase the applicable permit will result in the issuance of a complaint and notice to appear and subject the owner to potential court costs.
(d) Complaint and Notice to Appear. The complaint and notice to appear as provided in this section shall charge the owner with violations of the particular applicable ordinance and order the owner to appear in Municipal Court at a particular date and time.
(e) Fines. Any person charged with a violation of this chapter shall, upon a plea or finding of guilt, be sentenced to a fine of not less than $50.00. The sentence shall not be subject to a reduction or parole unless the person who is convicted or pleads guilty provides evidence that a permit was purchased prior to plea or finding of guilt. However, in no event shall the sentence be reduced or paroled to a fine of less than $25.00. (Ord. 20649 § 1, 4-14-26.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 ; Municipal Court, TMC 2.40.060 .
