(a) 101.2, Scope, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
This code applies to residential buildings as defined in TMC 14.80.060 .
(b) 101.4.4, Change in occupancy or use, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(c) 101.4.6, Mixed occupancy, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(d) 101.5, Compliance, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Residential buildings shall meet the provisions of Chapter 4.
(e) 101.5.2, Low energy buildings, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
The following buildings, or portions thereof, separated from the remainder of the building by building thermal envelope assemblies complying with this code shall be exempt from the building thermal envelope provisions of this code:
1. Those with a peak design rate of energy usage less than 3.4 Btu/h•ft 2 (10.7 W/m 2 ) or 1.0 watt/ft 2 (10.7 W/m 2 ) of floor area for space conditioning purposes.
2. Those that do not contain conditioned space.
3. Accessory structures that do not contain habitable space.
(f) 102.1.1, Above code programs, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
The code official or other authority having jurisdiction shall be permitted to deem a national, State or local energy efficiency program to exceed the energy efficiency required by this code. Buildings approved in writing by such an energy efficiency program shall be considered in compliance with this code.
(g) 103.1, General, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
The submittal of construction documents and plans is not required, and a separate permit shall not be issued with regard to the construction practices and techniques utilized in buildings that fall within the scope of this code. Construction or work for which a building permit is required shall be subject to the provisions of this code.
Exception: The code official is authorized to and may require the submittal of any necessary construction documents and other supporting data for specific projects where special or unusual conditions exist. The code official may also require that the necessary construction documents be prepared by a registered design professional.
(h) 103.3, Examination of documents, including subsections 103.3.1, 103.3.2 and 103.3.3, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
The code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascertain whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws or ordinances. The code official shall either approve the documents or note any items or specifications that do not comply, and notify the responsible party with results of the review.
(i) 103.4, Amended construction documents, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(j) 103.5, Retention of construction documents, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(k) 104.1, General, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Construction or work regulated by this code shall be subject to inspection by the code official.
(l) 104.8, Approval, including subsection 104.8.1, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(m) 106.1, General, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those listed in Chapter 6, and such codes and standards may be considered as part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
(n) Section 107, Fees, is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(o) 108.4, Failure to comply, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
It shall be unlawful for any person to continue to work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remedy a violation or unsafe condition. Failure to abide by this provision may result in penalties prescribed in TMC 1.10.070 .
(p) Section 109, Board of appeals, is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following provisions shall be substituted therefor:
Any appeal from a decision of the code official may be appealed to the board of building and fire appeals pursuant to TMC 2.235.010 .
(Ord. 19697 § 6, 2-7-12.)
