The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
“Director” shall mean the Chief of Police or designee.
“Enforcement officer” shall mean any law enforcement officer, building official, zoning inspector, code enforcement officer, fire inspector, building inspector, or other person authorized by the City to enforce any applicable ordinance.
“Governmental entities” shall mean any Federal agency, city, county, school district or other taxing subdivision.
“Owner” shall mean every person or entity who alone or severally with others has legal title to any real property, excluding governmental entities. In the absence of substantial evidence to the contrary, records of the Shawnee County Clerk’s Office, Register of Deeds, certified copies of court records or judgments of any court, contracts for deed and other documents related to the property shall be conclusive evidence of ownership.
“Property manager” shall mean any party designated by the owner as responsible for inspecting, maintaining and securing the property as required in this chapter.
“Real property” shall mean any residential or commercial land and/or buildings, identified by a property parcel identification number, located in the City limits.
“Registry” shall mean a database of real property, used by the City to allow owners the opportunity to register vacant properties as required in this chapter.
“Renovation activities” shall mean actions that demonstrate that property is being repaired, remodeled, or rehabilitated. Such activities shall include, but not be limited to, painting, roofing, wallpapering, tiling, carpeting, installing cabinets/counter tops, installing heating/cooling systems, and repairs to any part of the structure including, but not limited to, the foundation, windows, doors, siding, and porches.
“Utility” shall mean any utility and/or service that is essential for a building to be habitable and/or perform a service necessary to comply with all City ordinances. This includes, but is not limited to, electrical, gas, water, and sewer.
“Vacant” shall mean any building or structure intended for residential or commercial use which does not appear to be occupied or in use by the owner or tenant on a permanent, nontransient basis. Evidence that a property is vacant shall include any condition that on its own, or combined with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property has not been occupied or in use for at least 180 days. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to: overgrown and/or dead vegetation; past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities; accumulation of trash, junk or debris; abandoned vehicles, auto parts and/or materials; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with habitation or occupancy; the presence of an unsanitary, stagnant swimming pool; the accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail; statements by neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government agents; and/or the presence of boards over doors, windows or other openings. (Ord. 20464 § 2, 11-21-23.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
