Failure of any grease hauler to comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be subject to the following enforcement procedures:
(a) Notice of Violation. A notice of violation will be issued to any grease hauler that is found to be in noncompliance with the requirements of this chapter. The notice shall state the violation and shall give the grease hauler 10 business days to remedy or otherwise correct the violation. The grease hauler shall have 10 calendar days from the receipt of notice by the grease hauler to correct or otherwise remedy the violation.
(b) Grounds for Notice of Violation. A grease hauler may be issued a notice of violation for any one of the following grounds:
(1) Falsification of any information submitted as part of the application for the grease hauler license.
(2) Failure to comply with any requirements or regulations concerning grease traps/interceptors as provided for in this chapter.
(3) Failure to pay required fees, or any other assessed fees.
(4) Failure to comply with any other license condition.
(5) Discharging any liquid waste into a nonauthorized location.
(6) Falsifying information required for a discharge manifest, or any other applicable forms, applications or reports required under this chapter.
(7) Disposal of waste into the municipal sewer system at any site other than the designated disposal site.
(8) Any other violation which constitutes an imminent or substantial damage to the health or welfare of persons or the environment.
(c) License Suspension/Revocation.
(1) In the event that a grease hauler shall fail to remedy a violation within the time frame set forth in the notice, the license shall be suspended as follows:
(i) Upon the first failure to remedy a violation, the grease hauler license will be suspended by the Division until such time as the violation has been remedied.
(ii) Upon the second failure to remedy a violation, the grease hauler license shall be suspended for a period of three months.
(iii) Upon the third failure to remedy a violation, the grease hauler license shall be suspended for a period of one year. The license suspension shall only be lifted after expiration of the one-year period and the grease hauler has applied for a new grease hauler license meeting all requirements of TMC 13.20.870 .
(2) During any period of any license suspension, a grease hauler may not engage in any grease hauling activities.
(3) Upon receipt of a notice of suspension issued by the Division, the grease hauler may appeal the suspension in accordance with Chapter 2.45 TMC. (Ord. 20157 § 16, 12-4-18.)
