As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) “Amenity zone” means that portion of the sidewalk used for street trees, landscaping, transit stops, and street lights.
(b) “Bicycle” means every device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride, having two or three tandem wheels.
(c) “Electric-assisted scooter” means a self-propelled vehicle that has at least two wheels in contact with the ground, an electric motor, handlebars, a brake and a deck that is designed to be stood upon when riding. Electric-assisted scooter does not include: (1) a vehicle that is powered by gasoline; or (2) a motorized skateboard, as defined by Article I of the Standard Traffic Ordinance adopted at TMC 10.15.010 , as amended by TMC 10.15.020 .
(d) “Electric personal assistive mobility device” means a self-balancing two-nontandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an electric propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per hour.
(e) “Frontage zone” means the area adjacent to the property line where transitions between public sidewalk and the space within buildings occur.
(f) “Pedestrian” means:
(1) Any person afoot;
(2) Any person in a wheelchair, either manually or mechanically propelled, or other low powered, mechanically propelled vehicle designed specifically for use by a physically disabled person; or
(3) Any person using an electric personal assistive mobility device.
(g) “Pedestrian zone” means a clear travel space for pedestrians consisting of at least four feet in width so as not to obstruct pedestrian use and passage.
(h) “Pocket park” means an area for public leisure that may include green space, educational displays, public art, medallions, sculptures, benches, fountains, miniature trains, pavilions and statues.
(i) “Public parking facilities” means parking lots and garages owned or operated by the City.
(j) “Traffic regulations applicable to bicycles” means Sections 127 through 133 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance adopted at TMC 10.15.010 , as amended by TMC 10.15.020 . (Ord. 20178 § 1, 4-9-19.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
