(Published in the Topeka Metro News June 8, 2026)

ORDINANCE NO. 20662

5 AN ORDINANCE introduced by City Manager Dr. Robert M. Perez concerning special

6 events, amending Sections 12.70.010, 12.70.040, 12.70.050,

7 5.115.020, 5.115.030, 5.115.070, 5.115.080, 5.115.180, 5.115.190

8 and 10.50.040 of the Topeka Municipal Code and repealing original

9 sections.

10

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF TOPEKA, KANSAS:

Section 1. That section 12.70.010, Definitions, of The Code of the City of

Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read as follows:

Definitions.

“Block party” means a temporary gathering of area residents held on a blockaded

portion of local residential streets that may or may not include a neighborhood

procession.

“Exigent circumstances” means a situation that could not have been anticipated,

including an unexpected loss of venue for an event. “Exigent circumstances” shall not

include situations caused by inadequate planning.

“Holiday” includes New Year’s Day, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday,

Juneteenth, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving

Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.

“Neighborhood procession” means an organized procession of people, motor

vehicles, bicycles, floats, animals or any combination, traveling in unison for a period of

time that does not exceed two hours in length (from start through tear-down) along or

upon a sidewalk or streets; provided, however, that at least 75 percent of the streets

being traveled upon are classified in the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and

Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) Approved Functional Classification Map for

Topeka and Shawnee County, as amended, as being local residential streets (as

opposed to arterial and/or collector streets).

“Parade” means an organized procession of people, motor vehicles, bicycles,

floats, animals or any combination, traveling in unison along or upon a sidewalk or any

classification of street that may require closure of streets and the regulation of vehicular

traffic by law enforcement to prevent a conflict with the normal or regular flow of traffic.

“Parade” shall not include a neighborhood procession associated with a block party.

“Person” means a natural person or legal entity such as but not limited to an

individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership or limited liability company.

“Police escort” means the assignment of law enforcement officers to provide a

visibly authorized presence for public safety, traffic control, or to facilitate the movement

of specific vehicles or individuals.

“Public property” means any street, alley, sidewalk, right-of-way or property

owned by the City.

“Special event” means an outdoor event held on public property organized for a

particular and limited purpose and time. Special events shall include, but not be limited

to, the following: parades, block parties, running/walking/bicycling events, motor vehicle

events, festivals and concerts.

“Sufficient application” means that the application: (1) contains all of the

information and documents required in TMC 12.70.050; and (2) includes the application

fee.

“Vendor” means a transient vendor, sidewalk vendor, or a mobile food vendor as

defined at TMC 5.115.010.

Section 2. That section 12.70.040, Fees – Deposit for debris removal, of The

Code of the City of Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read as follows:

Fees – Deposit for barricades and debris removal.

(a) Application Fee. Except for governmental entities, an applicant for a special

event permit shall submit a nonrefundable application fee as prescribed by the City’s

Fee Schedule to the City Clerk at the time of application. For block parties, the

nonrefundable application fee shall be as prescribed by the City’s Fee Schedule for

each block party.

(b) Debris Deposit. The applicant shall pay a deposit in the amount prescribed

by the City’s Fee Schedule. In the event the applicant fails to comply with TMC

12.70.090(b) or (c), all or a portion of the deposit will be used to reimburse the City for

the costs of securing, placing and removing street barricades in the manner and

location approved by the Police Chief and Traffic Engineer, or their designees and

removing all debris from the property.

Section 3. That section 12.70.050, Application, of The Code of the City of

Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read as follows:

Application.

(a) A sufficient application shall be submitted to the City Clerk according to the

following timelines:

(1) If the event requires approval by the Governing Body for alcoholic

liquor or cereal malt beverages, at least 60 business days before the event.

(2) If the event occurs on a holiday, at least 45 business days before the

event.

(3) If the event does not occur on a holiday, at least 30 business days

before the event.

(4) If the event requests police escort services, at least 30 business days

before the event.

(45) If the application is for a block party only, at least 20 business days

before the event.

(56) An application shall not be accepted more than 12 months prior to

the event.

(6)7 The City Manager or designee may waive an application deadline if

the City Manager or designee determines that exigent circumstances exist.

Applications submitted and accepted after the required deadline will be charged

a late fee as prescribed by the City’s Fee Schedule.

(b) The applicant shall provide the following information:

(1) The type of event.

(2) The date and times of the event, including specific times for set-up

and tear-down.

(3) The name and contact information of the applicant and the sponsor, if

not the same. If the event is sponsored by a person other than the applicant, the

applicant shall provide authorization from the sponsor.

(4) The name and contact information for the individual who will be

responsible for the conduct of, and be present during, the event.

(5) The public property to be utilized. If the event is a parade,

identification of one of the routes approved by the Police Chief and Traffic

Engineer or their designees, as well as the approximate number of people, motor

vehicles, floats and/or animals.

(6) The size of the anticipated crowd.

(7) Whether alcohol or cereal malt beverages will be available.

(8) A site plan that includes the following:

(i) A map identifying potential street closures and placement of

barricades.

(ii) Location of stages and vendors.

(iii) Location of fencing.

(iv) Location of toilets and lavatory facilities.

(v) Sound and sound amplification to be used, if any; including

number, location and power of amplifiers and speakers.

(vi) Seating, including chairs, tables and bleachers.

(vii) Location of barricades for areas serving cereal malt

beverages and/or alcoholic liquor.

(viii) Location of designated fire access lanes.

(ix) Parking areas if street closure requested.

(9) If the applicant is requesting street closures, written notice must be

provided as follows:

(i) If the applicant is requesting street closures for a block party,

the applicant shall provide written notice to all residents within the

blockaded area at least 10 business days prior to the event.

(ii) If the applicant is requesting street closures in any other

situation, the applicant shall provide written notice at least 10 business

days prior to the event to: (A) all residents and/or businesses that may be

affected by the street closures; and (B) any business improvement district

established pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1781 et seq., in care of its board

president (as well as the Executive Director of Downtown Topeka, Inc.

(“DTI”), if within the downtown business improvement district).

(10) Acknowledgement by the applicant that any event staff or

volunteers shall be at least 18 years of age and must be able to safely perform

essential physical tasks, including standing for extended periods and moving light

to moderately heavy equipment (such as barricades), with or without reasonable

accommodation and shall act under the direction and supervision of the applicant

when assisting with the following activities: the placement, removal, relocation,

or monitoring of signage, barricades, fencing, cones, and other traffic control

devices; directing vehicular or pedestrian traffic; monitoring ingress and egress

points; providing crowd control; assisting with event setup and teardown;

maintaining event perimeters; supporting parking operations; and performing

other duties reasonably related to the safe, orderly, and lawful conduct of the

event. The City does not provide event staff or volunteers for events. The

applicant is responsible for acquiring all necessary event staff or volunteers.

(1011) A certificate of liability insurance required by TMC 12.70.080.

(1112) Any additional information requested by the City Manager or

designee to assist in making a determination regarding whether to issue a permit.

Section 4. That section 5.115.020, Transient vendor, peddler, solicitor –

License required – Exceptions, of The Code of the City of Topeka, Kansas, is hereby

amended to read as follows:

Transient vendor, peddler, solicitor – License required – Exceptions.

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct business as a transient vendor

without a license having been issued pursuant to this chapter unless one of the

following exceptions applies:

(1) Sales by a vendor approved by the sponsor of a special event for

which the sponsor has secured a special event permit in accordance with

Chapter 12.70 TMC.

(21) Sales at wholesale to retail merchants in the usual course of their

business.

(32) Sales conducted inside the following structures: trade centers,

convention centers, shopping centers, and trade, exhibition or convention centers

located in hotels and motels.

159	(43)	Garage sales held on premises devoted to residential use.
160	(54)	Auctions.
161	(65)	Promotional trade or hobby shows conducted within districts zoned

for commercial use.

(76) Sales or displays at fairs, expositions or promotional events where

the activity is sponsored by the City or another governmental entity.

(87) Sales by a vendor approved by an educational institution, religious

organization, civic organization, or not-for-profit organization at athletic events or

concessions sponsored by the organization.

(98) Sales at a farmers’ market that is registered with the Kansas

Department of Agriculture.

(109) Sales of an individual’s personal property by an executor or

administrator of the estate.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct business as a peddler or

solicitor without a license issued pursuant to this chapter unless the activity is

sponsored by an educational institution, religious organization, civic organization or not-

for-profit organization.

Section 5. That section 5.115.030, Transient vendor, peddler, solicitor –

License application – Fee – Duration, of The Code of the City of Topeka, Kansas, is

hereby amended to read as follows:

Transient vendor, peddler, solicitor – License application – Fee – Duration.

(a) Application shall be made to the City Clerk on a form provided by the City

Clerk. In addition to paying the license fee, the applicant shall attest to the truthfulness

of the application and shall complete the application in full, providing the following

information:

(1) Name and permanent address of the applicant and the business. If

the applicant is not an individual, the names and permanent addresses of the

officers of the corporation or the members of the partnership, firm, limited liability

company, or other business entity.

(2) The applicant’s Kansas sales tax certificate number, if applicable.

(3) A brief description of the licensed activity, including the nature of the

applicant’s business and the merchandise or services being offered.

(4) The location of any structure, building or conveyance to be used in

the course of the licensed activity, including a site plan.

(5) A statement indicating whether or not the applicant has had a

transient vending license or a peddler’s or solicitor’s license revoked by the City

or another municipality within the two preceding years prior to the date of

application.

(6) For peddlers and solicitors, a statement whether or not within 10

years immediately preceding the date of making application the applicant has

been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving crimes against persons

as those crimes are defined in Chapter 21, Article 54, Kansas Statutes

Annotated, and theft, burglary, and criminal use of a financial card as those

crimes are defined in Chapter 21, Article 58, Kansas Statutes Annotated.

Criminal background reviews will be conducted by the Police Chief or designee.

(7) For transient vendors, written authorization from the owner or lessee

of private property that the applicant may conduct activities at the identified site.

(b) License Fees – Duration. The following license fees shall not be prorated or

refundable for any reason, including denial of an application or license revocation:

(1) Transient Vendor. The per day fee shall be as prescribed by the

City’s fee schedule. A transient vendor license shall be valid only for the day(s)

set out in the license; except that the license is not valid on days during which

special events permitted pursuant to Chapter 12.70 TMC occur unless the

participation of the licensee has been approved by the special event sponsor.

(2) Peddler or Solicitor. The annual fee shall be as prescribed by the

City’s fee schedule, plus the cost of the criminal background review. A peddler or

solicitor license shall expire on December 31st of the year in which it is issued.

Section 6. That section 5.115.070, Sidewalk vendor – License required –

Exceptions, of The Code of the City of Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read as

follows:

Sidewalk vendor – License required – Exceptions.

It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct business as a sidewalk vendor

without a license having been issued pursuant to this chapter unless either of the

following applies:

(a) The vendor is approved by the sponsor of a special event for which the

sponsor has secured a special event permit in accordance with Chapter 12.70 TMC; or

(b) Thethe vendor is conducting business at a farmer’s market registered with

the Kansas Department of Agriculture.

Section 7. That section 5.115.080, Sidewalk vendor – License application –

Fee – Duration, of The Code of the City of Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read

as follows:

Sidewalk vendor – License application – Fee – Duration.

(a) Application shall be made to the City Clerk on a form provided by the City

Clerk. In addition to paying the license fee, the applicant shall attest to the truthfulness

of the application and shall complete the application in full, providing the following

information:

(1) Name and permanent address of the applicant and the business. If

the applicant is not an individual, the names and permanent addresses of the

officers of the corporation or the members of the partnership, firm, limited liability

company or other business entity.

(2) The applicant’s Kansas sales tax certificate number, if applicable.

(3) A brief description of the licensed activity, including the nature of the

applicant’s business and the merchandise or services being offered.

(4) The location of the activity.

(5) A statement indicating whether or not the applicant has had a

sidewalk vending license revoked by the City or another municipality within the

two preceding years prior to the date of application.

(6) Written permission of the property owner or tenant and immediately

adjacent property owner(s) or tenant(s) if the applicant is conducting business in

front of a retail business.

(7) A certificate of insurance from the applicant demonstrating general

liability coverage in an amount not less than $500,000 per single incident.

(b) License Fees. The fee shall be as prescribed by the City’s fee schedule and

shall not be pro-rated or refundable for any reason, including denial of an application or

license revocation. The license shall be valid only for the day(s) set out in the license;

except that the license is not valid on days during which special events permitted

pursuant to Chapter 12.70 TMC occur unless the participation of the licensee has been

approved by the special event sponsor.

Section 8. That section 5.115.180, Mobile food vendors – License required –

Exceptions, of The Code of the City of Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read as

follows:

Mobile food vendors – License required – Exceptions.

It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct business as a mobile food vendor

without a license having been issued pursuant to this chapter unless one of the

following exceptions applies:

(a) The person is a vendor approved by the sponsor of a special event for which

the sponsor has secured a special event permit in accordance with Chapter 12.70 TMC.

(ba) The person is selling food and/or beverages in a farmers’ market registered

with the Kansas Department of Agriculture.

(cb) The person has a permanent restaurant business location in the City and

operates a mobile food unit at other locations for no more than 10 days during a

calendar year.

(dc) The person is providing catering services to a private event that is not open

for the sale of food and/or beverage to the general public.

(ed) The person is a vendor operating in a park or recreational facility that is

under the jurisdiction of the Shawnee County Parks and Recreation Department.

Section 9. That section 5.115.190, Mobile food vendor – License application –

Fee -- Duration, of The Code of the City of Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read

as follows:

Mobile food vendor – License application – Fee – Duration.

(a) Application shall be made to the City Clerk on a form provided by the City

Clerk. In addition to paying the license fee, the applicant shall attest to the truthfulness

of the application and shall complete the application in full, providing the following

information:

(1) Name and permanent address of the applicant and the business. If

the applicant is not an individual, the names and permanent addresses of the

officers of the corporation or the members of the partnership, firm, limited liability

company or other business entity.

(2) The name of the owner and the type, make and registration number

of the vehicle(s).

(3) A brief description of the nature of the business and the

food/beverage being offered for sale.

(b) The applicant shall pay a license fee in the amount as prescribed by the

City’s fee schedule, which shall not be prorated or refundable for any reason, including

denial of an application or license revocation.

(c) A mobile food vendor license is valid until December 31st of the year in

which it is issued; except that the license is not valid on days during which special

events permitted pursuant to Chapter 12.70 TMC occur unless the participation of the

licensee has been approved by the special event sponsor.

Section 10. That section 10.50.040, Parking on parade route, of The Code of

the City of Topeka, Kansas, is hereby amended to read as follows:

Parking onprohibitions for parade route or special event.

The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to

prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or

part thereof constituting a part of the route ofthe surrounding area of a parade route or

special event. The Chief of Police may cause signs to be posted to such effect, and it

shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation

thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on an unposted street or public

thoroughfare in violation of this section.

308 Section 11. That original § 12.70.010, § 12.70.040, § 5.115.020, § 5.115.030, §

309 5.115.070, § 5.115.080, § 5.115.180, § 5.115.190 and § 10.50.040 of The Code of the

City of Topeka, Kansas, are hereby specifically repealed.

Section 12. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its

passage, approval and publication in the official City newspaper.

Section 13. This ordinance shall supersede all ordinances, resolutions or rules,

or portions thereof, which are in conflict with the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 14. Should any section, clause or phrase of this ordinance be declared

invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the same shall not affect the validity of this

ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Governing Body on June 2, 2026.

320 CITY OF TOPEKA, KANSAS

321

322

323

324

Spencer L. Duncan, Mayor

ATTEST:

330

331 Brenda Younger, City Clerk
