The following guidelines shall apply when evaluating a conditional use permit application:
Guidelines
(a) | Land use compatibility |
| (1) | Development density | Site area per unit, or intensity of use, should be similar to surrounding uses if not separated by major physical improvements or natural features.
| (2) | Height and floor area | Development should minimize difference in height and building size from surrounding structures. Substantial differences shall be justified by urban design considerations.
| (3) | Setbacks | Development should respect preexisting setback lines in surrounding area. Variations shall be justified by significant site features or operating characteristics.
| (4) | Building coverage | Building coverage should be similar to that displayed in surrounding areas. Higher coverage should be mitigated by landscaping, buffering or other site amenities.
(b) | Site development |
| (1) | Parking and internal circulation | Parking and circulation should serve all structures with minimal vehicular and pedestrian conflicts.
| (2) | Stormwater management | Development design shall comply with all required stormwater runoff best management practices, as approved by the Public Works Director or designee.
| (3) | Building design | (i) Architectural design and building materials should be compatible with surrounding properties if located adjacent to residential districts or in highly visible locations.
| | | (ii) The adaptive reuse and restoration of historically significant structures shall be considered. “Historically significant structures” means structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the State Register of Historic Places, or structures having obtained local landmark status.
(c) | Operating characteristics |
| (1) | Traffic capacity | Projects should not materially reduce the existing level of service on adjacent streets. Projects will be required to make street improvements and/or dedicate right-of-way to mitigate negative effects.
| (2) | External traffic | Project design should minimize nonresidential traffic through residential neighborhoods.
| (3) | External effects | Projects with operating hours, noises or visual distractions that impact surrounding properties may be required to mitigate these impacts.
| (4) | Outside storage | If permitted, outside storage areas should be screened from adjacent streets and less intensive zoning districts and uses.
(d) | Comprehensive plan | Projects should be consistent with the Topeka Comprehensive Plan and all its elements.
(e) | Additional regulations | Conditional uses shall be required to conform to any other applicable regulations specifically listed for a use as set forth in Chapter 18.225 TMC or elsewhere in the code.
Guidelines
(a)
Land use compatibility
(1)
Development density
Site area per unit, or intensity of use, should be similar to surrounding uses if not separated by major physical improvements or natural features.
(2)
Height and floor area
Development should minimize difference in height and building size from surrounding structures. Substantial differences shall be justified by urban design considerations.
(3)
Setbacks
Development should respect preexisting setback lines in surrounding area. Variations shall be justified by significant site features or operating characteristics.
(4)
Building coverage
Building coverage should be similar to that displayed in surrounding areas. Higher coverage should be mitigated by landscaping, buffering or other site amenities.
(b)
Site development
(1)
Parking and internal circulation
Parking and circulation should serve all structures with minimal vehicular and pedestrian conflicts.
(2)
Stormwater management
Development design shall comply with all required stormwater runoff best management practices, as approved by the Public Works Director or designee.
(3)
Building design
(i) Architectural design and building materials should be compatible with surrounding properties if located adjacent to residential districts or in highly visible locations.
(ii) The adaptive reuse and restoration of historically significant structures shall be considered. “Historically significant structures” means structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the State Register of Historic Places, or structures having obtained local landmark status.
(c)
Operating characteristics
(1)
Traffic capacity
Projects should not materially reduce the existing level of service on adjacent streets. Projects will be required to make street improvements and/or dedicate right-of-way to mitigate negative effects.
(2)
External traffic
Project design should minimize nonresidential traffic through residential neighborhoods.
(3)
External effects
Projects with operating hours, noises or visual distractions that impact surrounding properties may be required to mitigate these impacts.
(4)
Outside storage
If permitted, outside storage areas should be screened from adjacent streets and less intensive zoning districts and uses.
(d)
Comprehensive plan
Projects should be consistent with the Topeka Comprehensive Plan and all its elements.
(e)
Additional regulations
Conditional uses shall be required to conform to any other applicable regulations specifically listed for a use as set forth in Chapter 18.225 TMC or elsewhere in the code.
(Ord. 19691 § 3, 1-17-12.)
