(a) Whenever a person is found guilty of the violation of an ordinance, the Municipal Judge may:
(1) Release the person without imposition of sentence;
(2) Release the person on probation after the imposition of sentence, without imprisonment or the payment of a fine or a portion thereof, subject to conditions imposed by the court as provided in subsection (e) of this section; or
(3) Impose such sentence of fine or imprisonment, or both, as authorized for the ordinance violation.
(b) In addition to or in lieu of any other sentence authorized by law, whenever a person is found guilty of the violation of an ordinance and there is evidence that the act constituting the violation of the ordinance was substantially related to the possession, use or ingestion of cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor by such person, the judge may order such person to attend and satisfactorily complete an alcohol or drug education or training program certified by the administrative judge.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, in addition to or in lieu of any other sentence authorized by law, whenever a person is convicted of having violated, while under 21 years of age, an ordinance prohibiting an act prohibited by K.S.A. 21-5701 through 21-5717 and amendments thereto, the Uniform Controlled Substances Act (K.S.A. 65-4101 et seq. and amendments thereto), K.S.A. 41-719 , 41-727 , or 8-1599 , and amendments thereto, the Municipal Judge shall order such person to submit to and complete an alcohol and drug evaluation by a community-based alcohol and drug safety action program certified pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1008 and amendments thereto and to pay a fee not to exceed the fee established by that statute for such evaluation. If the judge finds that the person is indigent, the fee may be waived.
(d) If the person is 18 or more years of age but less than 21 years of age and is convicted of a violation of K.S.A. 41-727 , and amendments thereto, involving cereal malt beverage, the provisions of subsection (c) of this section are permissive and not mandatory.
(e) The court may impose any conditions of probation or suspension of sentence that the court deems proper, including, but not limited to, requiring that the defendant:
(1) Avoid such injurious or vicious habits, as directed by the court or the probation officer;
(2) Avoid such persons or places of disreputable or harmful character, as directed by the court or the probation officer;
(3) Report to the probation officer as directed;
(4) Permit the probation officer to visit the defendant at home or elsewhere;
(5) Work faithfully at suitable employment insofar as possible;
(6) Remain within the State unless the court grants permission to leave;
(7) Pay a fine or costs, applicable to the ordinance violation, in one or several sums and in the manner as directed by the court;
(8) Support the defendant’s dependents;
(9) Reside in a residential facility located in the community and participate in educational counseling, work and other correctional or rehabilitative programs;
(10) Perform community or public service work for local governmental agencies, private corporations organized not for profit, or charitable or social service organizations performing services for the community;
(11) Perform services under a system of day fines whereby the defendant is required to satisfy fines, costs or reparation or restitution obligations by performing services for a period of days determined by the court on the basis of ability to pay, standard of living, support obligations and other factors;
(12) Make reparation or restitution to the aggrieved party for the damage or loss caused by the defendant’s crime, in an amount and manner determined by the court and to the person specified by the court;
(13) Reimburse the City, in accordance with any order made under subsection (f) of this section, for all or a part of the reasonable expenditures by the City to provide counsel and other defense services to the defendant; or
(14) Pay a probation fee in the amount of $100.00.
(f) In addition to or in lieu of any other sentence authorized by law, whenever a person is found guilty of the violation of an ordinance the judge may order such person to reimburse the City for all or a part of the reasonable expenditures by the City to provide counsel and other defense services to the defendant. In determining the amount and method of payment of such sum, the court shall take account of the financial resources of the defendant and the nature of the burden that payment of such sum will impose. A defendant who has been required to pay such sum and who is not willfully in default in the payment thereof may at any time petition the court which sentenced the defendant to waive payment of such sum or of any unpaid portion thereof. If it appears to the satisfaction of the court that payment of the amount due will impose manifest hardship on the defendant or the defendant’s immediate family, the court may waive payment of all or part of the amount due or modify the method of payment. (Ord. 20308 § 2, 8-10-21. Formerly 2.110.610.)
State Law References: Similar State statute, K.S.A. 12-4509 .
