The final plat shall show and contain the following information:
(a) Name of subdivision (not to duplicate or closely resemble the name of any existing subdivision).
(b) Location of section, township, range, County and State, including the descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based on an accurate traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close; the allowable error of closure on any portion of the plat shall be one foot in 5,000.
(c) The locations of monuments shall be shown and described on the final plat; locations of such monuments shall be shown in reference to existing official monuments or the nearest established street lines, including the true angles and distances to such reference points or monuments.
(d) The location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the length of radii or area of all curves, and with all other information necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground; dimensions shall be shown from all angle points and points of curve to lot lines.
(e) Lots shall be clearly designated by number or letter; the area of each lot shall be indicated in terms of square footage either in tabular form or within the lot boundaries on the plat.
(f) Blocks shall be lettered clearly in the center of the block.
(g) The exact location, width and name of all streets to be dedicated.
(h) Location and width of all easements to be dedicated.
(i) Boundary lines and description of the boundary lines of any area, other than streets and alleys, which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use.
(j) Name and address of the developer and the surveyor or engineer making the plat.
(k) Scale of plat (scale to be shown graphically and in feet per inch), date and north point.
(l) Formal dedication for all easements.
(m) Formal dedication of all streets, alleys and all other public areas not previously dedicated.
(n) The names and signatures of the owners of the property, duly acknowledged and notarized, shall appear on the original and copies submitted.
(o) Any stream buffer easements as required by this title.
(p) A drainage report, including a stormwater management plan if required by Chapter 13.35 TMC. (Ord. 19626 § 2, 8-23-11.)
