(a) Electronic message center signs may be erected in the following zoning districts: RR, R, M, O&I, C, I, U-1, MS-1 and X, only if the sign is allowed in the respective district and the sign meets all of the following standards:
(1) Brightness. An EMC shall utilize automatic dimming technology to adjust the brightness of the sign relative to ambient light so that at no time shall an EMC exceed a brightness level of 0.3 foot-candle above ambient light, as measured using a foot-candle (lux) meter calibrated within the past 36 months and in conformance with the following process:
(i) Light measurements shall be taken with the meter aimed perpendicular to the sign message face or at the area of the sign emitting the brightest light if that area is not the sign message face, at a preset distance depending on sign size. Distance shall be determined by taking the square root of the product of the sign area and 100. For example, using a 12-square-foot sign: √(12 x 100) = 34.6 feet measuring distance.
(ii) An ambient light measurement shall be taken using a foot-candle meter at some point between the period of time between 30 minutes past sunset and 30 minutes before sunrise with the sign turned off to a black screen.
(iii) Immediately following the ambient light measurement taken in the manner required by this subsection, an operating sign light measurement shall be taken with the sign turned on to full white copy.
(iv) The brightness of an EMC shall comply with the brightness requirements of this subsection if the difference between the ambient light measurement and the operating sign light measurement is 0.3 foot-candle or less.
(2) Movement. The following display features are prohibited: flashing, strobing, blinking, fluttering, spinning, rotating, bouncing, animation, scrolling and chasing.
(i) Exception: An EMC located within the I, C-2, C-3, C-4, or C-5 district which is not within 125 feet of a residential or open space district may have animation, scrolling text, and frame effects.
(3) Right-of-Way, Portable EMCs. An EMC shall not overhang into a public right-of-way and shall not be included in a portable sign.
(4) Audio Messages. An EMC shall not include any audio message, tones or music.
(5) Dwell Times – C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5 and I. EMCs located within a C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5 or I district and within 125 feet of a residential or open space district may only display static images having a dwell time of at least four seconds and a transition time of two seconds or less and this transition may use frame effects without illusionary or simulating movement.
(6) Dwell Times – Signs for Nonresidential Uses in Residential Districts. EMCs incorporated into signs for nonresidential uses in residential districts shall have a dwell time of at least eight seconds.
(7) Dwell Times – O&I, C-1, U-1, MS-1, X-1, X-2. EMCs located within an O&I, C-1, U-1, MS-1, X-1, or X-2 district may only display static images having a dwell time of at least four seconds and a transition time of two seconds or less and this transition may use frame effects without illusionary or simulating movement.
(8) Compliance Assurance. No permit shall be granted unless the applicant provides sufficient proof from the manufacturer that the sign has the technical capacity to comply with all applicable regulations governing EMCs and that the sign owner and/or operator has reviewed and understands the applicable regulations pertaining to the EMC and agrees not to violate the regulations.
(b) Nonconforming EMCs. An EMC in existence on July 16, 2013, that did not meet the standards regarding audio messages, movement, and brightness in Ordinance No. 19830 shall have complied with the requirements of Ordinance No. 19830 by September 1, 2013. (Ord. 20207 § 17, 9-10-19.)
