(a) Created. There is hereby established in the City a municipal university as provided by K.S.A. 13-13a03 et seq. and amendments thereto. The university shall be known as Washburn University of Topeka.
(b) Management. The management and control of the municipal university shall be vested in a board to be known as the Board of Regents of Washburn University of Topeka. By such name the municipal university may sue and be sued, issue contracts, and hold such real and personal property as it may acquire. Such university shall possess the usual powers of a corporation for public purposes.
(c) Membership. The Board of Regents of the municipal university shall consist of nine members appointed as follows:
(1) Three members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council and shall hold office as provided in K.S.A. 13-13a04 and amendments thereto. Members appointed under this subsection shall be registered voters and residents of the City, one from each of the three member districts as established in K.S.A. 13-13a04 and amendments thereto.
(2) Three members shall be appointed by the governor and shall hold office as provided in K.S.A. 13-13a06 and amendments thereto. Members appointed under this subsection shall be residents of the State.
(3) One member shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners of Shawnee County and shall hold office as provided in K.S.A. 13-13a06 and amendments thereto; such member shall reside in Shawnee County, but outside the City.
(4) One member shall be the Mayor or another member of the Council who is selected by the Mayor.
(5) One member shall be a member of the State Board of Regents selected by the State Board at its regular meeting in September of each year, to serve as a member of the Board of Regents for the ensuing year.
(d) Resignations from the Board of Regents shall be made to the chairperson of the Board. The chairperson shall report any vacancy occurring in the Board to the authority which appointed the member whose position is vacant. All vacancies shall be filled, by the authority which appointed the member whose position is vacant, by the appointment of a successor to hold office for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(e) Immediately after receiving notification of their appointment, Regents-elect shall take oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State, and faithfully, honestly and impartially to discharge the duties of their office. Regents shall serve without compensation.
(f) The Board of Regents shall organize each year, electing from their own number a chairperson and such other officers as may be necessary for the full discharge of the duties imposed on them. A majority of the Regents duly appointed and qualified at any time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(g) The Board of Regents shall have the power to adopt a seal and generally to organize itself, prescribe its rules, the duties of its officers, and to do and perform all things, deeds and acts, and have all powers and prerogatives which are now by the provisions conferred upon the Board of Regents pursuant to K.S.A. 13-13a03 et seq. and any amendments thereto. (Ord. 20436 § 1, 6-20-23.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Office of the Arts, Chapter 2.245 TMC; U-1 university district, Chapter 18.175 TMC.
