For purposes of this franchise ordinance the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent within the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense and words in the single number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
“City” shall mean the City of Topeka, Kansas, and, where appropriate by the context, each of its departments, divisions and component units, including public trusts or authorities of which the City is a beneficiary.
“Company” shall mean Kansas Gas Service, a division of ONE Gas, Inc.
“Consumer” shall mean any entity located within the municipal corporate limits of the City and serviced by the company through any use of the public ways.
“Distribution” or “distributed” shall mean all sales, distribution, or transportation of natural gas to any sales consumer or transportation consumer for use within the City by the company or by others through the distribution facilities of the company in a public way.
“Distribution system” or “distribution facilities” shall mean a pipeline or system of pipelines, including without limitation, mains, pipes, boxes, reducing and regulating stations, laterals, conduits and services extensions, together with all necessary appurtenances thereto, or any part thereof located within any public way, for the purpose of distribution or supplying natural gas for light, heat, power and all other purposes.
“Effective Date” shall mean the date the company files its written acceptance with the City following the final passage and approval of this franchise ordinance by the City, as set forth in Section 10 of this franchise ordinance.
“Entity” shall mean any individual person, governmental entity, business, corporation, partnership, firm, limited liability corporation, limited liability partnership, unincorporated association, joint venture, trust, and any form of business enterprise not specifically listed herein.
“Facility” or “facilities” refers to the company’s distribution system or distribution facilities.
“Franchise” shall mean the grant of authority, set forth in Section 2 of this franchise ordinance, by the City to the company for the distribution of natural gas to the inhabitants of the City and to operate a distribution system or distribution facilities.
“Franchise fee” shall refer to the charges as prescribed in Section 3 of this franchise ordinance.
“Franchise ordinance” shall mean this ordinance granting a natural gas franchise to the company.
“Gross receipts” shall mean any and all compensation and other consideration derived directly by the company from any distribution of natural gas to consumers within the City. Such term shall not include revenue from certain miscellaneous charges and accounts, including but not limited to: connection fees, disconnection and reconnection fees, temporary service charges, delayed or late payment charges, collection fees, bad debts, customer project contributions, meter test fees, revenues received by the company from consumers as franchise fee reimbursement, and returned check charges. Additionally, gross receipts shall not include credit extended pursuant to the cold weather rule (or substitute rule) of the Kansas Corporation Commission for natural gas sold within the corporate limits of the City, nor volumetric rate fees collected by company and remitted to City in accordance with Section 3 of this franchise ordinance.
“MCF” shall mean a measurement of natural gas equal to one thousand cubic feet. It is assumed for purposes of this franchise ordinance that one MCF equals one million British thermal units.
“Public improvements” means any public facilities, buildings, or capital improvements, including, without limitation, streets, alleys, sidewalks, sewer, water, drainage, right-of-way improvements, and other public projects.
“Public project” means any project planned or undertaken and financed by the City or any governmental entity for construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of public facilities or improvements, or any other purpose of a public nature paid for with public funds.
“Public way” or “public ways” shall mean the area on, below or above the present and future public streets, avenues, alleys, bridges, boulevards, roads, highways, parks, parking places, and other public areas, and general utility easements, dedicated to or acquired by the City. The term does not include easements obtained by private entities providing utilities services or private easements in platted subdivisions or tracts.
“Sales consumer” shall mean, without limitation, any entity that purchases natural gas within the corporate city limits from company for delivery to such consumer within the City through the company’s distribution system or distribution facilities.
“Settlement prices” shall mean the settlement prices for natural gas futures contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) on the fifteenth day of each month as published in nationally recognized publications such as the CME Group (CME) or S&P Global Platts (Platts) on the following business day (or the next day in which a settlement price is published).
“Transport gas” shall mean all natural gas transported by company pursuant to a Kansas Corporation Commission approved transportation tariff, arrangement, or by other agreement, but not sold by the company, through company’s distribution facilities to any transportation consumer.
“Transportation consumer” shall mean without limitation, any entity that transports transport gas pursuant to a Kansas Corporation Commission approved transportation tariff, arrangement, or by other agreement, within the City’s municipal corporate limits through company’s distribution facilities for consumption within the City’s corporate limits.
“Volumetric rate” is the rate applicable to each Mcf of transport gas distributed to transportation consumers. The volumetric rate shall be based on a twelve month average of settlement prices as calculated from July through June. Initially, the settlement price shall mean $0.2345 per MCF for transport gas distributed to transportation consumers within the City as represented in “Attachment A,” which is incorporated herein and attached hereto.
There shall be an annual recalculation of the volumetric rate which shall be effective each January 1st. The recalculation shall be based on settlement prices for the previous twelve-month period. The average settlement prices for each of the twelve months shall be summed and divided by twelve and multiplied by five percent to obtain the volumetric rate to be effective January 1st of the next succeeding year. The company shall calculate the volumetric rates in accordance with the procedures set out herein and then filed with the City Clerk by July 31st of each year for those rates to be effective on January 1st of the following year. (Ord. 20503 § 1, 7-30-24.)
