“Block party” means a temporary gathering of area residents held on a blockaded portion of local residential streets that may or may not include a neighborhood procession.
“Exigent circumstances” means a situation that could not have been anticipated, including an unexpected loss of venue for an event. “Exigent circumstances” shall not include situations caused by inadequate planning.
“Holiday” includes New Year’s Day, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday, Juneteenth, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
“Neighborhood procession” means an organized procession of people, motor vehicles, bicycles, floats, animals or any combination traveling in unison for a period of time that does not exceed two hours in length (from start through teardown) along or upon a sidewalk or streets; provided, however, that at least 75 percent of the streets being traveled upon are classified in the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) Approved Functional Classification Map for Topeka and Shawnee County, as amended, as being local residential streets (as opposed to arterial and/or collector streets).
“Parade” means an organized procession of people, motor vehicles, bicycles, floats, animals or any combination traveling in unison along or upon a sidewalk or any classification of street that may require closure of streets and the regulation of vehicular traffic by law enforcement to prevent a conflict with the normal or regular flow of traffic. “Parade” shall not include a neighborhood procession associated with a block party.
“Person” means a natural person or legal entity such as but not limited to an individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership or limited liability company.
“Police escort” means the assignment of law enforcement officers to provide a visibly authorized presence for public safety, traffic control, or to facilitate the movement of specific vehicles or individuals.
“Public property” means any street, alley, sidewalk, right-of-way or property owned by the City.
“Special event” means an outdoor event held on public property organized for a particular and limited purpose and time. Special events shall include, but not be limited to, the following: parades, block parties, running/walking/bicycling events, motor vehicle events, festivals and concerts.
“Sufficient application” means that the application: (1) contains all of the information and documents required in TMC 12.70.050 ; and (2) includes the application fee.
“Vendor” means a transient vendor, sidewalk vendor, or a mobile food vendor as defined at TMC 5.115.010 . (Ord. 20662 § 1, 6-2-26.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
