The following words used in this chapter shall mean:
“Day” means a 24-hour period that commences at 12:00 a.m. and ends at 11:59 p.m.
“Farmers’ market” means a common facility or area where producers or growers gather on a regular, recurring basis to sell fresh fruits, vegetables, meats and other farm products directly to consumers. “Farmers’ market” includes, but is not limited to, short-term festivals, roadside stands or other agricultural product sales or other locations or any market, sales event or other related event, series of events or venue that advertises, promotes or uses the term “farmers’ market” or any derivative thereof, as a part of the name of such market, sales event, or other related event or venue.
“Flea market” means a market, indoors or outdoors, where new or used items are sold from individual sellers and where each seller operates independently from other sellers. Items sold include, but are not limited to, household items, antiques, decorations, and crafts.
“Flea market promoter” means a person who solicits, invites or permits another person to come upon property under the promoter’s control for the purpose of occupying individual stands from which personal property is bought, sold, traded, or exchanged.
“Flea market seller” means a person selling items or offering items for sale at a flea market.
“Merchandise” means any goods, food, food products, or a product of any kind that can be bought or sold.
“Mobile food unit” means a self-contained vehicle, trailer, cart or other conveyance from which food and/or beverage is offered for sale.
“Mobile food vendor” means any person, other than a transient vendor or sidewalk vendor, that offers food and/or beverage for sale from a mobile food unit.
“Peddler” means any person who goes upon the premises of a private residence, not having been invited by the occupant, carrying merchandise and offering the same for sale.
“Person” means any individual, association, corporation partnership, limited liability company or other legal entity.
“Sidewalk vendor” means any person, other than a mobile food vendor, who engages in the business of selling merchandise on a public sidewalk.
“Solicitor” means any person who goes upon the premises of a private residence, not having been invited by the occupant, for the purpose of taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of merchandise for future delivery or for services to be performed in the future.
“Transient vendor” means any person, other than a mobile food vendor, flea market promoter or flea market seller, who engages in a temporary business of selling merchandise and operates on private property. (Ord. 20039 § 1, 12-6-16.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
