(a) Information Required. Except as provided for herein, each registrant shall provide to the Director information indicating the horizontal and vertical (if available) location, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it has control and which is located in any right-of-way (“mapping data”). Mapping data shall be provided with the specificity and in the format requested by the Director for inclusion in the mapping system used by the Director.
Within six months after the acquisition, installation, or construction of additional equipment or any relocation, abandonment, or disuse of existing equipment, each registrant shall supplement the mapping data required herein.
Each registrant shall, within six months after the date of passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, submit a plan to the Director specifying in detail the steps it will take to comply with the requirements of this section. Said plan shall provide for the submission of all mapping data (1) for the central business district within two years after the date of passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and (2) for the remainder of the City as early as may be reasonable and practical, but not later than five years after the date of passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, mapping data shall be submitted by all registrants for all equipment which is to be installed or constructed after the date of passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter at the time any permits are sought under this chapter.
After six months following the passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, a new registrant, or a registrant who has not submitted a plan as required above, shall submit complete and accurate mapping data for all its equipment at the time any permits are sought under this chapter.
(b) Telecommunication Equipment. Information on existing facilities and equipment of telecommunications registrants will be provided in a format that is compatible with the City geographical information system (GIS). Logistical records for underground facilities that indicate location within the right-of-way fulfill this requirement.
(c) Trade Secret Information. At the request of any registrant, any information requested by the Director which qualifies as a “trade secret” under K.S.A. 60-3320 et seq. shall be treated as trade secret information as detailed therein. (Ord. 17587 § 5-17, 10-24-00. Code 1995 § 130-692.)
Cross References: Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
