As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
“Adequate insurance” shall mean insurance covering the alarm business and its agents and employees with coverage limits that meet or exceed the limits set forth in TMC 5.90.150 .
“Alarm business” means any business operated by a person who engages in the activity of selling, providing, altering, installing, leasing, maintaining, repairing, replacing, moving, or servicing an alarm system or which causes any of these activities to take place. Such term shall also include alarm servicing companies who engage in the activity of monitoring alarm systems.
“Alarm system” means an assembly of equipment or devices or a single device arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to which law enforcement, fire or emergency medical personnel are expected to respond; provided, however, that this term includes externally audible and/or visual on-premises alarm systems but does not include smoke detectors and other alarms designated to merely give internal on-premises notification of an alarm condition.
“Chief of Police” means the Chief of Police of the City or a designated representative.
“City” means the City of Topeka, Kansas.
“Conviction” shall mean a guilty finding or adjudication as a juvenile offender of a criminal offense prohibited by Federal, State or local law, and shall include expunged convictions, diversions or deferred prosecutions.
“External audible and/or visual on-premises alarm system” means an alarm system designed to emit audible and/or visual signals at or on the premises upon which the alarm system is installed and which causes notification of such alarm system activation to be made to the Shawnee County consolidated emergency communications center.
“Monitor” means the person or business who shall be responsible for determining that an alarm system located within the City has been activated and who notifies the Shawnee County consolidated emergency communications center of the alarm activation.
“Person” means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
“User” means any person who has a functioning alarm system on premises under the person’s control. (Ord. 19370 § 21, 3-23-10. Code 1995 § 30-441.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
