The City Manager shall have the power and it shall be his or her duty:
(a) To execute and enforce all laws and ordinances and policies of the Council and to administer the affairs of the city.
(b) To sign all contracts binding the city, unless Council approval of the contract or subject matter is required by city ordinance or resolution, state or federal law, or other city officers or employees are specifically authorized by ordinance to approve and sign the contracts. This authority is subject to all legal and administrative reviews and approvals otherwise required by city ordinance.
(c) To attend all meetings of the Council, and its committees, unless excused, and such meetings of boards and commissions as he or she chooses or which he or she is directed to attend by the Council, and to participate in discussions at such meetings.
(d) To recommend to the Council such measures and ordinances as he or she may deem necessary or expedient and to make such other recommendations to the Council concerning the affairs of the city as he or she finds desirable.
(e) To investigate affairs of the city under his or her supervision, or any franchise or contract for the proper performance of any obligation running to the city within his or her jurisdiction.
(f) To control and administer the financial affairs of the city.
(g) To prepare an annual budget for submission to the Council.
(h) To prepare or cause to be prepared the plans, specifications, and contracts for work which the Council may order.
(i) To supervise the purchasing of materials and supplies and to make recommendations to the Council in connection with the awarding of public contracts and to see that all city contracts under his or her direction or that of the Council are faithfully performed.
(j) To prepare and submit to the Council such reports as it may require or that the City Manager deems appropriate.
(k) To keep the Council at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
(l) To prescribe such general rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary or expedient to the general conduct of the administrative departments under his or her jurisdiction.
(m) When directed by the Council, to represent the city in its intergovernmental relations and to negotiate contracts for joint governmental actions, subject to Council approval.
(n) To devote his or her entire time to the duties and interest of the city.
(o) To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this Charter Ordinance or by ordinance or resolution.
(p) To provide the Council by February 28 with a written report of the city’s financial condition and administrative activities for the prior fiscal year.
(q) To recommend organization of departments and divisions in the most efficient and economical manner.
(r) To prepare the agenda for Council meetings. (C.O. 112 § 3, 1-14-14.)
