(a) Any law enforcement officer may, upon reasonable cause, require the driver of a vehicle to stop and submit such vehicle and its equipment to an inspection and such test with reference thereto as may be appropriate. If such vehicle is found to be in unsafe condition or the required equipment is not present or is not in proper repair and adjustment, the officer shall give a written notice to the driver, and such notice shall require that such vehicle be placed in a safe condition and its equipment in proper repair and adjustment and a certificate of inspection and approval of such vehicle be obtained within 10 days. Every owner or driver, upon receiving any such notice, shall comply therewith and shall, within such 10 days, secure an endorsement upon such notice by any business doing vehicle repairs as a regular part of their business operations that such vehicle is in a safe condition and its equipment is in proper repair and adjustment.
(b) No person shall operate any vehicle after receiving a notice with reference thereto as provided in this section, until the vehicle and its equipment have been placed in proper repair and adjustment and otherwise made to conform to the requirements of this title; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not be construed to deny the authority of a law enforcement officer to order any unsafe and dangerous vehicle to be removed from the streets by towing the vehicle to the residence or place of business of the owner or driver or to a garage selected by the owner or driver.
(c) At the option of the owner, instead of repair, the vehicle may be converted to a nonhighway title or junked. In that instance, proof of nonhighway title or a copy of the signed-over title, transferring ownership to a licensed salvage business for junking, will be considered as compliance with subsection (a) of this section. (Code 1981 § 43-43. Code 1995 § 142-4.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
State Law References: Vehicle equipment, K.S.A. 8-1701 et seq.
