The City hereby establishes a Health Care Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) to review the employees’ group health insurance plan and the health insurance fund, including an assessment of operational performance and cost effectiveness, the extent to which the plan and the fund meet the needs of eligible employees, retirees and their dependent family members and any options that may be available to preserve or enhance existing levels of health care coverage while maintaining or reducing its cost to the City, eligible employees and dependent family members.
(a) The Committee shall be comprised of the Director of Human Resources, the Deputy Mayor, or his/her Deputy Mayor’s designee of a current Councilmember; three members appointed by the City Manager to serve as representatives of management; one member appointed from each of the City’s recognized employee organizations to serve as representatives of employee bargaining units; and one nonbargaining unit/nonsupervisory employee and one retiree appointed by the City Manager. The Committee shall meet on a schedule as determined by the Committee but not less than quarterly and no more than once per month unless a majority of the Committee votes to call an additional meeting. The Committee shall be afforded access, upon request, to plan design options; to any and all documents and information involving performance and/or administration of the plan and the fund, including any contracts or agreements between the City and any person or entity involving the operation and/or administration of the plan and/or the fund; and to any statistical data (historical, actual and projected) regarding benefit claims, and financial data regarding payments and administrative costs or expenses. Individually identifiable medical information and any records protected from disclosure by State or Federal law are specifically excluded from the provisions of this subsection.
(b) To the fullest extent practicable, Committee meetings shall be held during normal business hours and each member shall be excused from the performance of other duties, for a period of time not to exceed two hours per meeting, in order to attend such meetings unless a longer meeting is scheduled in advance by the Director of Human Resources.
(c) The Director of Human Resources or the Director’s designee shall serve as the chairperson of the Committee. The chairperson shall schedule and preside at Committee meetings and ensure that each member receives written notice of the date, time and place of any Committee meeting at least five calendar days prior to the meeting. The Committee may appoint, by majority vote of the members, a vice-chairperson and a recording secretary. The vice-chairperson shall preside at any meeting or part of any meeting during the chairperson’s absence and the recording secretary shall prepare minutes of each committee meeting. The appointments referenced herein shall be made so that the Director of Human Resources can schedule the Committee’s first meeting on or before April 6, 2012.
(d) A simple majority of the members appointed to serve on the Committee shall constitute a quorum authorized to conduct scheduled Committee business, including the approval of recommendations. Any requirement for action shall be based upon a majority vote. In the event of a tie vote, the City Manager shall cast the tie-breaking vote.
(e) Upon a majority vote of the members and whenever deemed necessary or appropriate, the Committee shall be authorized to approve and transmit to the City Manager any recommendation or proposal for change that the Committee believes will materially improve the operation, performance and/or administration of the plan and/or the fund on behalf of the City, eligible employees, retirees and dependent family members. Each year, the Committee may submit its recommendations to the City Manager regarding health care coverage, schedule of benefits and schedule of premiums and recommendation on the RFP process for the selection of the plan administrator(s). (Ord. 20206 §§ 74, 86, 9-10-19.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
