Each alarm business licensed hereunder will conduct its operations in compliance with the following standards and practices:
(a) If an alarm system or any of its component parts operates at 50 or more volts, the installation must be in accordance with TMC Title 14 .
(b) When an alarm business leases or installs an alarm system, it shall offer service either directly or through an agent for that alarm system on a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week basis for the purposes of repairing or servicing the system to correct any malfunctions that may occur. This information shall be provided in writing at the time of the lease or installation. The alarm business shall have a person responsible for repair and maintenance of alarm systems that are located within Shawnee County.
(c) When an alarm business leases or installs an alarm system, the alarm user shall be provided written instructions on how to operate the system and any user maintenance that may be required. These instructions shall be clear, concise and in language the alarm user can read and understand.
(d) When an alarm business leases or installs an alarm system for which the alarm user elects to have law enforcement personnel respond, it shall be the responsibility of the alarm business to:
(1) Provide the alarm user, at the time of lease or installation of the alarm system, a written copy of the City of Topeka’s false alarm penalties and procedures. The alarm user shall acknowledge the penalty procedures. The alarm business shall forward to the Police Chief a copy of these procedures signed by the alarm user acknowledging that such user understands how to operate the alarm system and the billing system for false alarms as set forth in Chapter 8.05 TMC, and any amendments thereto;
(2) An alarm monitoring company, at the time of an alarm, shall attempt to contact the user by telephone to verify that the alarm is valid; and
(3) An alarm monitoring company, when contacting the Shawnee County consolidated emergency communications center regarding an alarm, shall provide the alarm user’s name and address and type of alarm activation.
(e) The provisions of subsections (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section shall be applicable to alarm systems that are monitored by alarm businesses on the effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 18181 § 8, 3-2-04. Code 1995 § 30-456.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
