(a) The Transportation Operations Division shall place and maintain signs at all adjacent school zones and crosswalk school zones where a reduced speed limit is necessary during certain hours of school days for the safety of children. Signs shall be in conformity with the standard size, color and height of other speed limit signs within the City. The signs shall state the maximum school zone speed limit of 20 miles per hour. The signs shall be positioned in a manner and at locations visible to approaching traffic, not to interfere with ingress to or egress from driveways, and not extend into a roadway. Placement of the signs may exceed the exact distances contained in TMC 10.20.140 when necessary due to obstructions at the exact location. Deviations from such distances shall not reduce the actual dimensions of any school zone.
(b) In each case where a deviation is necessary from the exact distances set out in TMC 10.20.140 , its location and a statement of the reason for such deviation shall be indexed and filed as a public record within the Transportation Operations Division.
(c) In addition to school zone speed limit signs, the transportation operation division may, in its discretion, also paint or attach upon the street pavement within any school zone or upon the approach to any school zone the words “School Speed Zone” or similar markings designed to alert oncoming motorists of the existence of the school zone. Such words or markings shall not expand nor reduce the actual dimensions of any school zone. The absence or obscured visibility of such words or markings shall not constitute a defense to a traffic charge of exceeding the posted school zone speed limit.
(d) In addition to school zone speed limit signs, the Transportation Operations Division shall install and maintain a sign clearly displaying the times of day during which the school zone speed limit is in effect on school days, or at the City’s discretion, place and maintain flashing yellow lights above or beside school zone speed limit signs to alert oncoming motorists of the effective times of the school zone. When such flashing yellow lights are activated they shall establish or indicate the effective times of any school zone. A sign will be posted with the speed limit sign stating the school zone is in effect when flashing. Evidence that the lights were functioning properly before and after any violation of a school speed zone limit constitutes prima facie proof that the lights were functioning properly at the time of the violation. (Ord. 17815 § 3, 4-9-02. Code 1981 § 43-325. Code 1995 § 142-213.)
Cross References: Transportation Operations Division, TMC 10.10.060 .
