(a) The drainage fee for all property shall be billed and collected monthly. All such bills for drainage fees shall be rendered monthly by the Water Division. The drainage fee for those properties utilizing City utilities is part of a consolidated statement for utility customers which is generally paid by a single payment. In the event that a partial payment is received, the payment shall be applied pro rata to each account billed on the consolidated statement in the proportion that an individual account bears to the total consolidated statement of all current charges for all accounts. In the event of a partial month’s service, the bill shall be calculated based upon the number of days served. All bills for drainage fees shall become due and payable upon receipt and may be collected as any other account due and owing to the City.
(b) Drainage fees shall be subject to a five percent per month, not to exceed 25 percent, late fee. The City shall be entitled to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in collecting delinquent drainage fees. Any charge due under this article which shall not be paid when due may be recovered in an action at law by the City. The employees of the City shall, at all reasonable times, have access to any premises served by the City for inspection, repair or the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(c) All drainage fees assessed pursuant to this chapter may be certified to the County Clerk as a lien upon the property to which such fee is associated from the date such fee becomes due until such fee is paid. The owner of every building, premises, lot or house shall be obligated to pay the fee for all service provided to the premises, which obligation may be enforced by the City by action at law or by suit to enforce the lien, in the same manner as other taxes due and owing to the City. In the event of such action, the City shall be entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees for such collection. In the case that a tenant in possession of any premises or buildings shall pay such fees, it shall relieve the landowner from such obligation and lien; but the City shall not be required to look to any person whatsoever other than the owner for the payment of such fees. No changes of ownership or occupation shall affect the application of this chapter, and the failure of any owner to be advised that he purchased property against which a lien for drainage fees exists shall in no way affect his responsibility for such payment. (Ord. 19496 § 126, 12-21-10; Ord. 17059 § 19, 12-17-96. Code 1995 § 146-402. Formerly 14.85.110.)
