(a) General. The owner or operator of any facility which is required to prepare or have available a material safety data sheet per Uniform Fire Code Section 80.106 or an emergency and hazardous chemical inventory form under Subtitle B, Sections 311 and 312 of Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA Title III) shall provide a repository container (lock box) at the facility site as set forth in this section.
(b) Information Contained. The repository container (lock box) shall include the following information for emergency response personnel:
(1) A current list of key facility personnel knowledgeable about safety procedures of materials on site, complete with telephone numbers for such personnel in the event of an incident after normal hours of facility operation.
(2) A current emergency and hazardous chemical inventory form and a binder containing the material safety data (MSD) sheets or in the event that the volume of MSD sheets is too great to keep practically in the repository container shall give the location of the on-site MSD sheets and the MSD sheets shall be readily available for use by emergency response personnel.
(3) A facility site plan to include the following:
(i) The location of storage and use of hazardous materials on site;
(ii) The location of on-site emergency firefighting and spill clean-up equipment;
(iii) A diagram of the complete sewer system and the water system, showing fire hydrant and water main locations and sizes;
(iv) A copy of the local Fire Department’s preplan for the facility; and
(v) Any building floor plan deemed necessary by the Fire Chief.
(c) Location and Identification. The repository container (lock box) shall be installed at a location designated by the Fire Chief and shall be identified in a manner described by the Fire Chief.
(d) Size. All repository containers (lock boxes) shall have a minimum interior size of 14 inches (356 millimeters) high by 12 inches (305 millimeters) wide by two inches (51 millimeters) deep.
Exception: Where a smaller repository container (lock box) is deemed adequate by the Fire Chief.
(e) Keying. All repository containers (lock boxes) shall be keyed in accordance with the requirements set forth by the Fire Chief.
(f) Update and Notification. The owner or operator of the facility shall update the appropriate documents within the repository container (lock box) on an annual basis or more frequently when deemed necessary by the Fire Chief and shall send the Fire Chief all of the updated material, including an updated copy of the emergency and hazardous chemical inventory form, which shall be placed in the repository container (lock box) as well as disseminated among the emergency response personnel. (Ord. 16894 § 3, 12-12-95; Ord. 16893 § 2, 12-12-95. Code 1995 § 70-60.)
