(a) A person to whom a notice of a violation, other administrative action, or the imposition of a fee, charge or penalty has been issued shall within the time period stated in the notice:
(1) Correct the violation cited in the notice, if applicable; and/or
(2) Pay the indicated fee, charge or penalty.
(b) Alternatively, a person to whom a notice of a violation, other administrative action, or the imposition of a fee, charge or penalty has been issued may within 10 business days from the date of the notice appeal all or part of the finding of the violation or imposition of a fee, charge or penalty.
(1) The request for appeal must be in writing, give the person’s full name and mailing address, and at least one other method of contact such as telephone number or email address, and must set forth the reasons for the appeal. The request for appeal must be made to the director of the applicable department. The director of the applicable department shall schedule an administrative hearing to be held as soon as practicable but no later than 15 business days of the request for appeal. Additionally, the director of the applicable department shall serve personally or by first class mail written notice to the person of the date and time of the hearing.
(2) The written request for an appeal hearing must be accompanied by an appeal fee in an amount to be determined by the City Manager. Appeal fees will be refunded to the person appealing the finding of a violation or imposition of an administrative fee, charge or penalty, including the amount thereof, if the Administrative Hearing Officer does not find there was a violation.
(3) Compliance with this time limit within which an appeal must be filed shall be a jurisdictional prerequisite to any appeal brought under this chapter, and failure to comply shall bar any such appeal.
(4) The appeal shall be limited to the issues set forth in the request for appeal.
(5) Filing of a request for appeal shall stay the action by the director of the applicable department enforcing a finding of a violation or requiring payment of an administrative monetary penalty until the Administrative Hearing Officer has made his or her decision. (Ord. 20206 § 13, 9-10-19; Ord. 19319 § 2, 10-13-09. Code 1995 § 2-487. Formerly 2.145.020.)
