A person having the right to post bond for appearance shall, in order to do so, execute in writing a promise to appear at the Municipal Court at a stated time and place. Such appearance bond shall be in an amount as determined by the Municipal Judge, and may be secured by any one of the following methods, and when so secured, such person shall be released from custody.
The methods of securing the appearance of an accused person are as follows:
(a) Payment of cash, except that the Municipal Judge may permit negotiable securities or a personal check in lieu of cash.
(b) The execution of an appearance bond by a responsible individual residing within the State of Kansas, as surety with the approval of the Municipal Judge.
(c) A guaranteed arrest bond certificate issued by either a surety company authorized to transact such business within the State of Kansas, or an automobile club authorized to transact business in this State by the Commissioner of Insurance, except that such “guaranteed arrest bond certificate” must be signed by the person to whom it is issued and must contain a printed statement that the surety guarantees the appearance of such person and, in the event of failure of such person to appear in court at the time of trial, will pay any fine or forfeiture imposed upon such person not to exceed an amount to be stated on such certificate.
(d) In lieu of giving security in the manner provided by subsections (a) , (b) and (c) of this section, if the arrest is for the violation of a City ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle the accused person may deposit with the arresting law enforcement officer or the clerk of the Municipal Court a valid Kansas driver’s license in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the law enforcement officer or the clerk of the Municipal Court, the form of which shall be approved by the Division of Vehicles of the State Department of Revenue. Such receipt shall be recognized as a valid temporary Kansas driver’s license authorizing the operation of a motor vehicle by the accused person to the date of the hearing stated on the receipt. Such driver’s license and written copy of the notice to appear shall be delivered by the law enforcement officer to the Municipal Court as soon as reasonably possible. If the hearing on any such charge is continued for any reason, the Municipal Judge may note on the receipt the date to which such hearing has been continued, and such receipt shall be recognized as a valid temporary Kansas driver’s license until such date, but in no event shall such receipt be recognized as a valid Kansas driver’s license for a period longer than 30 days from the date for the original hearing. Any person who deposited a driver’s license to secure such person’s appearance, in lieu of giving a bond as provided in subsections (a) , (b) and (c) of this section, shall have such driver’s license returned upon the giving of the required bond pursuant to subsections (a) , (b) and (c) of this section or upon final determination of the charge.
In the event the accused person deposits a valid Kansas driver’s license with the Municipal Court and fails to appear in court on the date set for appearance, or any continuance thereof, and in any event within 30 days from the date set for the original hearing, the Municipal Judge shall forward the driver’s license of such person to the Division of Vehicles with an appropriate explanation attached thereto. Upon receipt of the driver’s license of such person the Division of Vehicles shall suspend such person’s privilege to operate a motor vehicle in this State until such person appears before the Municipal Court, or the Municipal Court makes a final disposition thereof, and notice of such disposition is given by the Municipal Court to the Division, or for a period not exceeding six months from the date such person’s driver’s license is received by the Division, whichever is earlier.
Any person who applies for a replacement or new driver’s license prior to the return of such person’s original license, when such license has been deposited in lieu of the giving of a bond as provided in this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as set forth in K.S.A. 8-2116 , and amendments thereto. (Ord. 20206 § 9, 9-10-19; Ord. 17666 § 31, 3-27-01. Code 1995 § 50-66. Formerly 2.110.290.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
State Law References: Similar State statute, K.S.A. 12-4301 .
