(a) Permitted Uses. A planned unit development district may provide for any use or combination of uses that are listed in the use regulations of the various districts contained in this division, subject to applicable limitations, provisions or conditions specified therein and in accordance with the following regulations:
(1) All approved permitted uses of this district shall be geographically designated and grouped by category on all plans in like manner as other districts contained in this division, either by individual group or in combination therewith.
(2) Permitted use categories and any approved conditional uses provided by the individual categories shall be specifically designated on all approved plans and shall be set forth in the adopting ordinance or resolution.
(3) Provided that all applicable limitations, provisions and conditions specified by use and set forth in this district are complied with, there may be use changes or relocations within each group category; provided, that the approved plan is not modified except as otherwise provided for by the procedures of this district.
(b) Setback and Height Regulations. The height and front, side and rear yard setbacks for individual structures within the planned unit development shall be determined in conjunction with the final approval of the planned unit development plan.
(c) Off-Street Parking Regulations. The provisions of Chapter 18.240 TMC, Off-Street Parking Requirements, shall apply to the planned unit development district in all respects except for the specified standards establishing the required number of spaces. Off-street parking regulations shall be based on the applicable requirements for each proposed use as set forth in this code. The Planning Director can provide a downward variance from this requirement based on factors provided by the applicant, including, but not limited to, the use of shared parking, nearby public parking or other factors that justify a lesser parking requirement.
(d) Signs. The number, location, size, area, height and type of signs shall be determined in conjunction with the approval process. (Ord. 19218 § 2, 2-3-09. Code 1995 § 48-24.02.)
Cross References: Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
