(a) Each initial application for examination for journeyman or master license shall be made on forms provided by the Development Services Division and shall be accompanied by payment of the appropriate application fee. Applications for examination shall be made to the Development Services Director prior to the scheduled examination date. In addition, each applicant for examination shall be responsible for paying the cost of the exam to the testing agency designated in K.S.A. 12-1509 , 12-1526 and 12-1542 . All applicants for trade examinations shall achieve a score of at least 75 percent for any of the trade examinations. There shall be no alternate education requirement for the trade examinations.
(b) All plumbing, mechanical, electrical and water softener/conditioner, lawn irrigation contractors and certified backflow tester/repair technicians licensed pursuant to this chapter shall display or post the required license in their place of business. All master and journeyman tradepersons shall carry their licenses on their persons and exhibit the license on the demand of the Inspector, his assistants or any officer of the City.
(c) Master.
(1) To become a licensed master, an individual shall meet the current requirements found in K.S.A. 12-1509 , and any amendments thereto, relating to plumbing contractor; K.S.A. 12-1542 , and any amendments thereto, relating to mechanical contractor; and K.S.A. 12-1526 , and any amendments thereto, relating to electrical contractor. The requirements to become a licensed master in the water softener/conditioner area within the plumbing trade shall be a minimum of one year of experience as a licensed journeyman within the water softener/conditioner trade and pass the water softener/conditioner master’s examination issued by the City of Topeka. To become a licensed master in the lawn irrigation area within the plumbing trade, a person must work as a journeyman for two years within the lawn irrigation area within the plumbing trade and pass the master’s examination. The requirement to become a licensed master in the solid fuel burning appliance area in the mechanical trade shall pass the fireplace/hearth certificate exam and the gas hearth appliance certificate exam approved by the Development Services Director. A master license holder shall be responsible to oversee all work activity to assure compliance with applicable codes and must have direct contact with the job site.
(2) A master shall be limited to that work which falls within the master’s trade or specialty area within that trade for which he or she is licensed.
(3) Continuing Education.
(i) Individuals possessing a master’s license in plumbing, mechanical and electrical trades shall be required to meet the continuing education requirements set forth in K.S.A. 12-1509 , and any amendments thereto, relating to plumbing contractor; K.S.A. 12-1542 , and any amendments thereto, relating to mechanical contractor; and K.S.A. 12-1526 to renew their respective license(s). The continuing education courses may be provided by the local jurisdiction, a nationally recognized trade organization, a product manufacturer or other sources deemed acceptable to the Development Services Director. Individuals holding multiple master’s licenses shall be required to obtain statutory continuing education hours for each license held; however, course work which applies to more than one category of license may count towards the continuing education requirement for each such license.
(ii) An individual with an expired or an inactive master’s license shall be required to provide proof of six hours of continuing education credits for each year such license was expired or inactive in order to reactivate the license. However, in the event the master’s license was expired or inactive for a two-year period or longer, only 12 hours of continuing education credit will be required for reactivation.
(d) Journeyman.
(1) To become a licensed journeyman in the plumbing, electrical and mechanical trades, an individual shall meet the current requirements found in K.S.A. 12-1509 , and any amendments thereto, relating to plumbing contractor; K.S.A. 12-1542 , and any amendments thereto, relating to mechanical contractor; and K.S.A. 12-1526 , and any amendments thereto, relating to electrical contractor. To become a licensed journeyman in the lawn irrigation trade, a person must work as an apprentice for one year within the trade. Work experience shall be verified by previous and current employers on forms provided by the Development Services Division.
(2) For the purposes of the mechanical trade only, a journeyman license is categorized as follows:
(i) Comprehensive, all items covered by the code.
(ii) Sheet metal journeyman, limited to perform the following types of installation:
(A) The placement and installation of the furnace, air conditioning or other air handling equipment. This does not include any connections of the line voltage electricity, fuel gas piping or refrigeration piping.
(B) The installation of the complete air distribution system.
(C) The installation of the products of combustion venting system.
(3) Continuing Education.
(i) Individuals possessing a journeyman’s license in the plumbing, mechanical and electrical trades shall be required to meet the continuing education requirements set forth in K.S.A. 12-1509 , and any amendments thereto, relating to plumbing trade license; K.S.A. 12-1542 , and any amendments thereto, relating to mechanical trade license; and K.S.A. 12-1526 , and any amendments thereto, relating to electrical trade license to renew their respective license(s). The continuing education courses may be provided by the local jurisdiction, a nationally recognized trade organization, a product manufacturer or other sources deemed acceptable to the Development Services Director. Individuals holding multiple journeymen’s licenses shall be required to obtain the statutory requirements for continuing education hours for each license held; however, coursework which applies to more than one category of license may count towards the continuing education requirement for each such license.
(ii) An individual with an expired or an inactive journeyman’s license shall be required to provide proof of six hours of continuing education credits for each year such license was expired or inactive in order to reactivate the license. However, in the event the journeyman’s license was expired or inactive for a two-year period or longer, only 12 hours of continuing education credit will be required for reactivation.
(4) Certified Backflow Tester/Repair Technicians.
(i) To become a licensed backflow tester/repair technician, the individual must successfully complete an accredited training session recognized by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment and the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official and achieve a passing score on an examination. The holding of this license shall entitle the individual to test and/or repair backflow prevention devices or assemblies.
(ii) An individual holding a backflow tester/repair technician license shall be required to meet the continuing education and recertification requirements established by the Backflow and Cross Connection Enforcement Official.
(e) Apprentice. An apprentice is an individual who is registered with the Development Services Division as working within the trades of electrical, mechanical, plumbing and lawn irrigation. The working ratio for licensed journeyman or master to registered apprentice shall be one to one, except the mechanical and lawn irrigation trades, wherein the ratio shall be one licensed journeyman or master to two registered apprentices. (Ord. 20196 § 1, 7-23-19.)
Cross References: Utilities Department, TMC 2.20.110 .
