(a) Established – Purpose. The City Manager is hereby authorized to establish the Topeka housing trust fund. The purpose of the trust fund shall be to encourage and support the acquisition, rehabilitation and development of affordable housing and/or emergency shelter and supportive services necessary to maintain independent living with dignity in the Topeka community. Monies placed in the housing trust fund through donations or otherwise will provide resources that can be used to address community, neighborhood, housing, and economic development needs of the City that cannot be fully met with Federal, State, or local funds; primarily through gap funding for affordable housing projects and housing-related services.
(b) Eligible Applicants. Eligible applicants shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Private entities.
(2) Public entities.
(3) Nonprofit entities.
(4) For-profit entities.
(c) Eligible Uses. Eligible uses shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Property acquisition.
(2) New construction of affordable housing.
(3) Rehabilitation of existing housing.
(4) Supportive services.
(5) Consulting services.
(d) Application Period. Applications requesting an allocation of monies from the housing trust fund will be accepted year-round in order to accommodate the varying needs of affordable housing providers, developers and supportive services providers. The City may from time to time, and as funding levels allow, issue a request for proposals seeking applicants who may be desirous of receiving proceeds from the housing trust fund in order to support the acquisition, rehabilitation and development of affordable housing and/or emergency shelter and supportive services necessary to maintain independent living with dignity in the community.
(e) Affordable Housing Trust Fund Review Committee – Responsibilities. This Committee shall be responsible for:
(1) Ensuring that strong preference will be given to unrestricted donations. Donor-advised, or otherwise restricted, funds may be considered, but must go through the same review and approval process as the funding-decision process.
(2) Conducting a review of applications requesting an allocation of monies from the housing trust fund, as set out in subsection (f) of this section, and then making a recommendation to the City Manager regarding whether or not to allocate funding.
(3) Preparing an annual report, in conjunction with the Department of Administrative and Financial Services, not later than July 1st of each year, concerning the activities of the preceding calendar year. Such reports shall be prepared by the Chairperson of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund Review Committee, shall cover all financial transactions involving monies raised and received, including gifts and donations, and shall thereafter be posted on the City’s website.
(f) Review of Applications. Each application requesting an allocation of monies held in the housing trust fund must be fully completed, with any required documentation attached. The Affordable Housing Trust Fund Review Committee shall review any fully completed application within 30 days of the date on which it is submitted. The following factors will be considered as part of such review:
(1) Would the project increase the supply of affordable rental housing, including the funding of rental assistance programs, for qualified households earning 80 percent or less AMI? Funding for projects that will serve households at 50 percent or less and 30 percent or less AMI are preferred, to the extent possible.
(2) Would the project increase the supply of for-sale housing for qualified households earning 80 percent or less of AMI?
(3) Would the project support homebuyer assistance programs, including by way of example down payment and mortgage assistance programs, for qualified households earning 80 percent or less of AMI?
(4) Would the project preserve rental housing, including the funding of rental assistance programs, for qualified households earning 80 percent or less of AMI? Funding for projects that will serve households at 50 percent or less and 30 percent or less AMI are preferred, to the extent possible.
(5) Would the project provide for the development of permanent supportive housing for unsheltered persons, and for supportive services associated with such housing?
(6) Would proposals for supportive services, in combination with categories in subsections (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section or stand-alone, enhance access to or success in safe affordable housing for households at 80 percent or less AMI?
(7) Would the project be a strategic investment leading to the stabilization or revitalization of a neighborhood or promote a mixed-income approach to affordable housing either by project or location?
(8) Would the project, if new construction, be compatible with the design character of the neighborhood and/or advance high-quality design standards including “crime prevention through environmental design”?
(9) Have total development and project costs and courses of funds been submitted?
(10) Have future operational costs and provision for any applicant-provided or partner-provided supportive services been submitted and satisfactorily addressed?
(11) Does the experience and financial stability of the applicant indicate likely project success?
(12) Do all elements of the proposal comply with City ordinances and other applicable laws and regulations?
(13) Are there other sources available that could fund this proposal (i.e., are housing trust fund dollars really needed)?
(14) How does the request meet a priority need identified in the Citywide Housing Market Study and Strategy or any addendums and updates?
(g) Funding Recommendation – Decision. The Committee, after considering each of the factors noted in subsection (f) of this section, shall forward its recommendation regarding whether or not to allocate funding to the City Manager within 30 days of the last date on which it met to consider the application. The City Manager shall review the recommendation and may return it to the Committee for further review. At such time as the City Manager believes the proposal is ready for action, the City Manager shall forward the proposal to the Governing Body with a recommendation. The decision of the Governing Body shall be final.
(h) Administration of Housing Trust Fund.
(1) The housing trust fund application and review process shall be administered by the Director of Planning and Development or designee, who may promulgate rules and regulations governing the processes and procedures associated with the same; provided, however, that such rules and regulations must remain consistent with this chapter.
(2) The housing trust fund account and monies shall be administered by the Director of Administrative and Financial Services or designee, who may promulgate rules and regulations governing the processes and procedures associated with donations to and expenditures from such fund; provided, however, that such rules and regulations must remain consistent with this chapter. (Ord. 20554 § 1, 3-18-25. Formerly 2.105.070.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
