(a) Required – Application. No person shall operate a salvage yard without first obtaining a salvage yard permit. Application for a salvage yard permit shall be made through the Topeka Fire Department on forms so provided. Information submitted on the application shall include the name of the applicant, proposed location of the salvage yard, zoning classification of proposed location, description of the materials to be stored within the salvage yard, methods of operation, and any other additional information as may be deemed necessary by the Fire Chief or his/her designee.
(b) Application Fee – Inspection – Issuance – Conditions of Permit. Upon receipt of the application and payment of an application fee of $280.00, the Fire Chief shall cause an inspection of the proposed location to be made and shall also verify that the proposed location is zoned appropriately. Results of the inspection shall be reduced to writing and signed by the persons making the inspection. The application and written inspection report shall then be submitted to the Fire Chief for consideration. If the Fire Chief finds from the application and written report that operation of the proposed salvage yard will not result in hazard to public health, safety or welfare and that the proposed premises are properly zoned, a salvage yard permit shall be issued. Information submitted on the application form may be made a condition of the permit. Further, it shall be a condition of the permit that the premises of a junkyard which are adjacent to a street or to property which at the time of permit application is zoned for residential use shall be fenced with an eight-foot privacy fence. Buildings which are adjacent to a street or residentially zoned property may be used to satisfy the fencing requirement. Salvage yards which operate entirely within an enclosed structure need not be fenced. In no event shall a required fence be constructed from salvage material. Public rights-of-way or public streets shall not be used for storage of salvage material.
(c) Expiration – Renewal, Fee. All salvage yard permits shall expire on January 1st following the date of issue. A permit may be renewed upon payment of a renewal fee of $140.00.
(d) Permit Not Transferable. No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned or used by any person other than the one to whom it was issued, and no permit shall be used at any location other than the one described in the application upon which it was issued. (Ord. 18294 § 23, 7-20-04; Ord. 17077 § 1, 1-28-97. Code 1981 § 38-101. Code 1995 § 114-154.)
Cross References: Fire Department, TMC 2.20.030 .
