Unless the particular provisions or the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this section shall govern the construction, meaning, and application of words and phrases used in this article.
“Camp” means to use property for living accommodation purposes, such as sleeping activities or making preparations to sleep (including the laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping); or storing personal property (including, but not limited to, clothing, sleeping bags, bedrolls, blankets, sheets, luggage, backpacks, kitchen utensils, cookware, and similar material); or making any fire, regularly cooking meals, using any tents, or living in a parked vehicle. These activities constitute camping when it reasonably appears, in light of all the circumstances, that a person(s) is using such property as a living accommodation. Camping does not include camping on a property by the owner of record or a lawful tenant for a period not to exceed 10 days within any six-month period, nor camping upon any property properly zoned or permitted for establishments primarily engaged in providing overnight or short-term camping sites for recreational vehicles, travel trailers, campers or tents.
“Flood control works” means the system comprised of levees, flood walls, relief wells, closure structures, pump stations and ponding areas that serve to protect the City from flooding.
“Levee” means the Waterworks Levee Unit, the South Topeka Unit, the Auburndale Unit, the Oakland Unit and the North Topeka Unit.
“Levee critical zone” means 500 feet from the centerline of the land side of a levee.
“Personal property” means any and all tangible property, and includes, but is not limited to, goods, materials, merchandise, tents, tarpaulins, bedding, sleeping bags, hammocks, personal items such as luggage, backpacks, clothing, documents and medication, and household items.
“Public infrastructure” means government buildings, government structures, government facilities, government equipment storage or repair locations, facilities operated by the government for public use, structures, bus shelters, roadways, highways, medians, traffic circles, bridges, overpasses, railways, flood control works, stormwater pipes and drainage, electrical generation systems, health care facilities, schools, and child care facilities.
“Store, stored or storing” means to put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to keep for safekeeping, and/or to place or leave in a location.
“Tent” includes any tarp, cover, structure or shelter, made of any material that is not open on all sides and which hinders an unobstructed view behind or into the area surrounded by the tarp, cover, structure or shelter.
“Trail” means the trails conveyed to Shawnee County pursuant to City of Topeka Contract No. 41460 which includes Deer Creek Trail, Soldier Trail, Shunga Trail and Landon Trail.
“Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting electric personal assistive mobility devices or devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 20544 § 1, 2-4-25.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
