K.S.A. 19-3307 is hereby amended to read as follows: Section 19-3307. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided all of the rights, powers, authority and jurisdiction conferred on counties and boards of county commissioners by the provisions of K.S.A. 19-3301 , 19-3303 and 19-3308 and by the provisions of K.S.A. 19-3302 , 19-3304 , 19-3305 and 19-3306 , and acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, are hereby also conferred upon and vested in any city located in any county such as described in K.S.A. 19-3301 , and acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, and the governing body thereof. The governing body of any such city, in the name of the city, shall have the power to enter into understandings and contracts and making agreements in like manner and for like purposes as the board of county commissioners are authorized by this act to enter into understandings and contracts and make agreements in the name of the county; and may acquire lands, rights-of-way and easements either within or without the limits of the city for like purposes as the board of county commissioners are authorized by K.S.A. 19-3302 and K.S.A. 19-3308 by purchase, gift or by eminent domain proceedings in the manner prescribed by K.S.A. ch. 26 , art. 2 (K.S.A. 26-201 et seq.) as amended, and acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, and may issue general obligation bonds of the city to pay the costs thereof and expenses connected therewith in such manner and upon such conditions as provided by law; provided that such bonds issued by the city may be issued to mature in not more than 20 installments of approximately equal amounts each year, and the first such installment shall mature not more than two years after the date of issuance and the last such installment shall mature not more than 21 years after the date of issuance; such bonds shall bear interest at a rate of not to exceed five percent per annum, payable semiannually or at such times as may be fixed by the city. Each bond shall specify the date of its separate maturity, and shall be in such denomination as the authority issuing the same shall direct; but the aggregate of any such bonds so issued shall not be in excess of 3-1/2 percent of the total assessed tangible valuation of the city, except that any city having a population of more than 110,000 located in a county having a population of less than 180,000 may issue such bonds in an aggregate amount which is not in excess of five percent of the total assessed tangible valuation of such city; provided, the governing body of any city may issue additional general obligation bonds of the city for such purposes not in excess of 1-1/2 percent of the total assessed tangible valuation of the city, but before such additional bonds may be issued, the governing body of the city shall submit the question of the issuance of such additional bonds and the amount thereof to the qualified electors of the city at a regular city election or at a special election called for that purpose as provided by law; provided further, that the total aggregate of all such bonds which may be issued under the provisions of this section shall not be in excess of five percent of the total assessed tangible valuation of the city. Such bonds shall not be subject to, nor included in any restrictions or limitations upon the amount of bonded indebtedness of said city contained in any other law. Funds received from the sale of bonds by any such city may be used to pay any loss, damage or expense for which the city or the governing body thereof may be liable in like manner as counties are authorized to pay such loss, damage or expense under the provisions of K.S.A. 19-3304 . For the purposes of maintaining and operating such flood control works as shall be constructed by the United States Army Corps of Engineers or other agencies of the United States government, when the same shall have been completed and turned over to the city, and for the purposes of maintaining and operating any flood control works or dikes heretofore or hereafter constructed for the purpose of protecting such city from floods, the governing body of such city shall be empowered to make an annual tax levy upon all the taxable tangible property within said city, of not to exceed one mill, and such levy shall be in addition to all other levies authorized or limited by law. It shall be the duty of the governing body of the city to keep all such flood control works and dikes in serviceable condition and to make such repairs as may, from time to time, be necessary. (C.O. 4 § 2, 2-4-64.)
State Law References: K.S.A. 19-3307 .
