In consideration of and as compensation for the Franchise hereby granted to the Company by the City, the Company shall make an accounting to the City of all electric energy that has been distributed on a monthly basis. The Company shall pay the City:
A sum equal to five percent (5%) of the Gross Receipts received from the Distribution of electric energy; and
The above sum shall be adjusted for uncollectible receivables and for uncollectible receivables which are later collected.
Payment of compensation above shall be effective on the first day of the first month after final passage and approval by the City and acceptance by the Company. Prior to that date, payments shall continue to be calculated and be paid in the manner previously provided in Ordinance 16602 . Such payments shall be made to the City under procedures, which are mutually agreed to by the Company and the City within thirty (30) days of the last day of the month to which such accounting shall apply.
In the event the accounting rendered to the City by the Company is found to be incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount, it being agreed that the City may accept any amount offered by the Company, but the acceptance thereof by the City shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or later found to be incorrect. The Company agrees that all of its books, records, documents, contracts and agreements as may be reasonably necessary for an effective compliance review of this Franchise shall at all reasonable times be opened to the inspection and examination of the officers of the City and its duly authorized agents, auditor, and employees for the purpose of verifying said accounting. Notwithstanding the obligation herein, the Company shall have the right to request the reasonable protection of proprietary information of the Company.
For each and every month, or any part thereof, that the compensation provided for by this Franchise remains unpaid after the same becomes due and payable by the City, there shall be added to such payment, as a late charge, a sum equivalent to the statutory rate for interest on the unpaid amount. Such late charge shall be applicable to sums that are delinquent as well as any sums due the City as the result of an audit of the Company’s records. (Ord. 19067 § 4, 4-8-08.)
