(a) Amendments to a conditional use permit may be initiated by the property owner(s), Planning Commission, or Governing Body and shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, trustees, and assignees of said property owner.
(b) Minor Amendments. Minor changes to either the conditions of approval in the resolution of a conditional use permit or the conditional use permit site plan may be approved administratively by the Planning Director as herein provided. Such changes may be authorized without additional public hearings, at the discretion of the Planning Director. This provision shall not prohibit the Planning Director from requesting a recommendation from the Planning Commission if the Planning Director determines the changes are not consistent with the use or conditions approved by the Governing Body.
(1) Minor Amendment Criteria. Amendments shall be deemed minor if the cumulative revisions to the approved conditional use permit on record with the Planning Department do not include any of the following:
(i) An increase in the conditional use permit boundary area, as shown on the plan or as legally described in the approving resolution.
(ii) An increase by greater than 10 percent of the height, floor area, any development threshold, or building coverage, as approved by the original conditional use permit.
(iii) The possible creation of obstacles, barriers, and service problems to traffic circulation, fire protection, public safety, and public utility services due to the revision(s).
(iv) An increase by greater than 20 percent to any approved signage including, but not limited to, height or sign face area.
(2) Submittal of Minor Revisions to an Approved Conditional Use Permit. The proposed revised conditional use permit site plan or changes to the conditions within the resolution of the conditional use permit shall be submitted to the Planning Director for consideration of approval. If the conditional use permit site plan is revised it shall include all data, conditions, and information identical to the most recently approved plan in addition to the proposed revisions. A letter of transmittal from the applicant setting forth in detail all proposed changes shall accompany the submittal of the application. The Planning Director may approve; approve with the inclusion of additional or revised conditions of approval; or deny the proposed minor amendment.
(3) If the Planning Director denies the amendment, the applicant may pay the applicable fee and appeal to the Planning Commission utilizing the procedure in TMC 18.245.020(b) .
(c) If the Planning Director determines that a proposed amendment to a conditional use permit involves changes identified in subsection (b)(1) of this section, the applicant shall submit an application for amendment utilizing the procedure in TMC 18.245.020(b) . (Ord. 19691 § 7, 1-17-12.)
