(a) Service. Workers compensation claims shall be served upon the City’s Human Resources Director, or his/her designee, in his/her capacity as administrator of the City workers compensation self-insurance fund in the manner provided for claims against other employers under the Workers Compensation Act (K.S.A. 44-501 et seq., 44-5a01 et seq.) the City Manager shall be authorized to secure outside counsel to defend any claim against the City workers compensation self-insurance fund.
(b) Investigation. The City’s Human Resources Director, or his/her designee, shall investigate or cause to be investigated each claim against the City workers compensation self-insurance fund. For the purposes of such investigations, the Human Resources Director, or his/her designee, is authorized to obtain expert advice regarding the injuries, occupational diseases, disabilities and damages involved in such claims.
(c) Claim Payments. If, based upon such investigation and any other available information, the City’s Human Resources Director, or his/her designee, finds that there is no material dispute as to any issue involved in a workers compensation claim, that the claim is valid and that the claim should be settled by agreement, the Human Resources Director, or his/her designee, with concurrence of the City Manager, may proceed to enter into such an agreement with the claimant, for the City workers compensation self-insurance fund, for any settlement not in excess of $35,000. For any workers compensation settlement amounts in excess of $35,000, Human Resources Director, or his/her designee, shall obtain the approval of the Governing Body, and any settlement made without Governing Body approval shall be invalid. Any such agreement may provide for lump sum settlements subject to approval by the Human Resources Director, or his/her designee, and all such workers compensation agreements shall be filed as provided in K.S.A. 44-527 . All other claims for workers compensation against such funds shall be paid in accordance with the Workers Compensation Act (K.S.A. 44-501 et seq., 44-5a01 et seq.) pursuant to awards or orders of the Kansas Department of Labor or a court.
(d) Funds to be Reserved. The Director of Administrative and Financial Services and the Director of Human Resources shall reserve funds sufficient to meet anticipated expenses for workers compensation claims in accordance with the Workers Compensation Act (K.S.A. 44-501 et seq., 44-5a01 et seq.) and experience data. (Ord. 20206 §§ 63, 86, 9-10-19.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Administrative and Financial Services Department, TMC 2.20.020 ; Human Resources Department, TMC 2.20.040 .
