For purposes of this Franchise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given herein:
“City as the Grantor” shall mean the City of Topeka, Kansas.
“Company as the Grantee” shall mean Westar Energy, Inc., a Kansas Corporation.
“Distributed” or “Distribution” shall mean all sales, distribution, or transportation by the Company or by others through the Facilities of the Company in the Right-of-Way to any consumer for use within the City.
“Facilities” shall mean all electric distribution lines, substations, works, and plants together with all necessary appurtenances thereto.
“Gross receipts” shall mean any and all compensation and other consideration derived directly by the Company from any Distribution of electric energy to a consumer for any use within the City, including domestic, commercial and industrial purposes, through charges as provided in tariffs filed and approved, and including without limitation interruptible sales and single sales; except that such term shall not include revenues from any operation or use of any or all of the Facilities in the Right-of-Way by others nor shall such term include revenue from certain miscellaneous charges and accounts, including but not limited to delayed or late payment charges, connection and disconnection fees, reconnection fees, customer project contributions, returned check charges, and temporary service charges.
“Public Improvement” shall mean any existing or contemplated public facility, building, or capital improvement project, financed by the City, including without limitation, streets, alleys, sidewalks, sewer, water, drainage, Right-of-Way improvement, and Public Projects.
“Public Project” shall mean any project planned or undertaken and financed by the City or any governmental entity for construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of public facilities or improvements, or any other purpose of a public nature paid for with public funds.
“Public Project for Private Development” shall mean a Public Project, or that portion thereof, that primarily benefits a third (3rd) party.
“Right-of-Way” shall mean present and future streets, alleys, rights-of-way, and public easements, including easements dedicated to the City in plats of the City for streets and alleys.
“Street Right-of-Way” shall mean the entire width between property lines of land, property, or an interest therein of every way publicly maintained where any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular traffic, including street, avenue, boulevard, highway, expressway, alley, or any other public way for vehicular travel by whatever name.
“Utility Easement” shall mean an easement owned by or dedicated to the City for the purpose of providing the Company and other utilities access to customers and users of any utility service. (Ord. 19856 § 1, 10-1-13.)
