(a) An application shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, Development Coordination Office, for plan review and approval and issuance of a grading and excavation permit. The Development Coordination Office may consult with any division of the Public Works Department or any other City office which has expertise in the area during the processing of a permit application and throughout the duration of the permit.
(1) Required Items. The application shall contain:
(i) Name of the applicant.
(ii) Name of the property owner, and legal description and address of property where grading application is to take place.
(iii) Quantity of earth to be removed or added, the total area of the site and the area that is expected to undergo excavation during the life of the permit.
(2) Additional Items. In addition, the Development Coordination Office may in its discretion require the following information:
(i) Property limits and accurate contours of existing site.
(ii) Limiting dimensions, elevations and finish contours of site.
(iii) Details of surface and subsurface drainage devices, walls, cribbing, dams or other protective devices to be utilized during construction.
(iv) Locations or proposed locations of buildings or structures on the site, and all other buildings or structures on adjacent land which is within 15 feet of the subject site.
(v) Method of controlling erosion during construction, including planting, seeding, terracing, temporary dams, etc.
(b) For areas involving more than five acres or the moving of more than 5,000 cubic yards of material, the grading plan accompanying the application for a grading and excavation permit shall also include such information as:
(1) The location, including site map, and the nature of the construction activity, including legend, north point and scale.
(2) Location and dimension of all streets and utilities extending through and adjacent to the site.
(3) Approximate limits and elevation of the 100-year floodplain and floodway, if applicable.
(4) Estimated time schedule for phasing of the development.
(5) Location of any rock disposal and topsoil stockpile areas.
(6) Proposed measures, including best management practices, to control pollutants in stormwater discharges during construction, including a brief description of the method of meeting applicable State and local erosion and sediment control requirements.
(7) Proposed measures to control pollutants in stormwater discharges that will occur after construction operations have been completed.
(8) An estimate of the runoff coefficient of the site and the increase in impervious area after the construction addressed in the permit application is completed, the nature of fill material and existing data describing the soil or the quality of the discharge.
(9) The name of the receiving water. (Ord. 16432 § 4, 3-10-92. Code 1995 § 66-102.)
Cross References: Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
