(a) The Department of Planning and Development is hereby authorized to operate programs, consistent with Federal, State and local laws and ordinances, that are specifically set out in the five-year consolidated plan and the annual consolidated action plan; provided, however, that prior to the commencement of any such program, specifications which detail such programs, objectives, methodology and costs shall be approved by the Governing Body through its adoption of the annual consolidated action plan and the Department budget. All actions taken by the Governing Body relating to the five-year consolidated plan and the annual consolidated action plan are subject to approval by HUD.
(b) The Director of Planning and Development, or designee, is authorized to develop, negotiate and present for approval by the City Manager contracts or interagency agreements with other City agencies necessary for the implementation of programs specifically set out in the annual consolidated action plan and the Department’s budget, which are consistent with all Federal, State and local laws and ordinances.
(c) Topeka’s approved neighborhood plans establish the general framework for which funding decisions are considered, including written criteria for how a target area should be defined in order to be considered for funding. The criteria shall include, but not be limited to, existing condition analysis by block, neighborhood plans, the neighborhood health map as published by the City Planning and Development Department and the comprehensive plan and any amendments thereto. The Housing Services Division of the Planning and Development Department will intentionally direct resources geographically to maximize collaborative investment from public and private funding sources. The major emphasis of funding decisions will be to promote identifiable impacts and enhance neighborhood wealth. To the extent allowable by funding sources, multiple-year commitments may be made to address needs identified in the five-year consolidated plan or the annual consolidated action plan. The concentration of resources into areas that have a reasonable potential for positive change will be a major consideration for investment strategies that will be outlined in the annual consolidated action plan. In addition, resources will be primarily concentrated in the “intensive care” and “at risk” areas as defined in the neighborhood health map published by the Planning and Development Department as being the areas where the majority of HUD resources will be allocated. (Ord. 20300 § 19, 6-8-21. Formerly 2.105.090.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
