(a) Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood elevation, providing subsections (b) through (f) of this section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
(b) Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, repair, or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the State Inventory of Historic Places, or local inventory of historic places upon determination, provided the proposed activity will not preclude the structure’s continued historic designation and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(c) Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any significant increase in flood discharge or base flood elevation would result.
(d) Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
(e) Variances shall only be issued upon: (1) showing of good and sufficient cause, (2) determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (3) determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
(f) The Floodplain Administrator or designee shall notify the applicant that: (1) the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance coverage and (2) such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance actions as required by this chapter.
(g) The Floodplain Administrator or designee shall maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
(h) Variances may be issued by the Board of Zoning Appeals for new construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that the criteria of subsections (a) through (e) of this section are met, and the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
(i) A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance. (Ord. 20425 § 15, 6-20-23.)
