(a) Location and Height. Fences and hedges shall be subject to the following location and height requirements:
(1) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, no portion of a fence shall exceed eight feet in height.
(2) Fences and hedges shall be located so no part thereof extends into public right-of-way or is located closer than one foot from a public sidewalk.
(3) In R and M districts, fences beyond the front face of the principal structure shall not exceed four feet in height. On corner lots, but not including reversed corner lots, fences beyond the front face of the principal structure where the fence is located along an arterial street that runs perpendicular to the corner lot’s established rear yard shall not exceed six feet in height. On reversed corner lots, fence heights shall be limited to four feet within all required front yards. On double frontage lots, fence heights shall be limited to four feet where such lots abut the established minimum front yard of any adjoining lot. The following diagram illustrates the setback requirements established in this section:
(b) Hazards. Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, no fence shall be constructed:
(1) Upon determination by the City Engineer that the proposed fence constitutes a traffic hazard;
(2) The location of the fence creates a sight obstruction, such as within a sight distance triangle, as prohibited by Chapter 12.20 TMC, Public Traffic Hazards; or
(3) In such a manner or design as to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
(c) Construction Methods and Materials. Fences in all districts shall be constructed of normally used fencing materials such as chain link, wood slats, masonry, iron, vinyl, or other materials typically supplied by vendors of fencing materials. The finished side of the fence shall face the street.
(d) The following shall constitute exceptions to the requirements of subsection (a)(1) of this section:
(1) Fences located in or upon parks and/or recreational facilities; provided, however, this exception shall not apply to recreational facilities which are accessory to a single-family dwelling.
(2) Fences located in or upon public use facilities or public utility facilities, such as electrical substations or pumping stations, shall be limited to eight feet in height unless the Planning Director determines that additional height, not to exceed 10 feet, is necessary for public health and safety.
(e) Fences in X districts shall comply with TMC 18.185.070 . (Ord. 20062 § 33, 4-18-17.)
Cross References: Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 ; City Engineer, TMC 2.20.100 .
