The City will consider granting tax exemptions only upon a clear and factual showing of direct economic benefit to the City through advancement of its economic development goals, including the creation of additional jobs and the stimulation of additional private investment. The City Council, in determining the amount and term of exemption to be granted, shall consider various factors including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) The assessed valuation of the property in relation to the economic benefit to the City of increased employment.
(b) The gain in tax revenue which may result from the new or expanded business, including the increase in the property tax base upon the expiration of the exemption.
(c) The contribution that the new or expanded business will make towards increased employment and earnings within the community.
(d) The number of new jobs created directly by the business in relation to the amount of tax exemption granted.
(e) The kinds of jobs created in relation to the type of skills available from the local labor market.
(f) The utilization by the business of labor skills and abilities of unemployed persons in the community.
(g) The degree to which the business improves the diversification of the economy of the City and its environs.
(h) The degree to which the ultimate market products are outside the community, recognizing that outside markets bring in “new money” to the local economy.
(i) The potential of the business for future expansion and additional job creation.
(j) The beneficial impacts the business may have by creating any other new jobs and businesses, including the utilization of local products or other materials and substances in manufacturing.
(k) The beneficial economic impact the business will have on a particular area of the City, including designated enterprise zones and areas of needed revitalization or redevelopment.
(l) The compatibility of the location of the business with land use and development plans of the City and the availability of existing infrastructure facilities and essential public services.
(m) The extent to which additional direct or indirect public costs to the City and to other local units would be necessary, such as the cost of the extension of public facilities.
(n) The extent to which the economic and employment benefits of the tax exemption accrue to the residents and taxpayers of those taxing subdivisions which indirectly subsidize the business as a result of the foregone tax revenue. (Ord. 17270 § 8, 6-2-98; Ord. 16349 § 8, 7-23-91. Code 1981 § 42-38. Code 1995 § 138-83.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
State Law References: Conditions for granting exemption, K.S.A. 79-251 .
