(a) Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, no Councilmember nor Mayor shall hold any other elected public office while serving the term for which the member was elected to the Council. No Councilmember nor Mayor shall hold any other city office or employment during the term for which the member was elected to the Council. No former Councilmember nor Mayor shall hold any compensated appointive city office or employment with the city until one (1) year after the expiration of the term for which the member was elected to the Council. For purposes of this section, the phrase “compensated appointive city office or employment” does not include the offices of district Councilmember or Mayor.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Council from selecting any current or former Councilmembers or the Mayor to represent the city on the governing board of any regional or other intergovernmental agency.
(b) Appointments and removals. Neither the Mayor nor individual Councilmembers shall in any manner direct, supervise, or require the appointment, promotion, transfer, assignment, demotion, discipline, layoff, suspension, discharge, or removal of any officers or employees whom the City Manager or any of his or her subordinates are empowered to appoint. The Mayor and Councilmembers may, of course, express their views and fully and freely discuss with the City Manager anything pertaining to appointment, demotion, transfer, assignment, suspension, discharge, and removal of such appointive officers and employees.
(c) Council inquiries. Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations authorized by the Council, the Mayor and individual district Councilmembers shall deal with appointive officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the City Manager solely through the City Manager. Neither the Mayor nor individual district Councilmembers shall give orders to any such appointive officer or employee, either publicly or privately, but may request basic information necessary for Council work. (C.O. 94 § 14, 7-20-04.)
