(Published in the Topeka Metro News June 8, 2026)

ORDINANCE NO. 20661

5 AN ORDINANCE introduced by City Manager, Dr. Robert M. Perez, concerning class

6 B licenses, amending and repealing Sections 14.15.010 through

7 14.15.080. of the Topeka Municipal Code.

8

9 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF TOPEKA, KANSAS:

10 Section 1. That Chapter 14.15 Technical Activities of Industries, sections

11 14.15.010, 14.15.020, 14.15.030, 14.15.040, 14.15.050, 14.15.060, 14.15.070 and

14.15.080 are hereby amended and repealed.

14.15.010 Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the

meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a

different meaning:

“Industry” means and includes any corporation, firm or partnership which carries

on a business within the City limits which is:

(a) A public utility operating under a franchise granted by the City;

(b) A railroad operating under the control of the Interstate Commerce

Commission; or

(c) A business whose business activity is specifically permitted by the use

regulations of I-1 light industrial or I-2 heavy industrial district.

“New construction” means the erection of any new building or other facility, either

detached from existing buildings or facilities or attached but constituting a substantial

enlargement of ground surface area or cubical content of an existing building or facility.

“Qualified industry” means any industry which has applied for and received a class

B license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

“Technical activities” means the doing of any work by the industry itself or the use

or installation of any materials, parts or equipment which is subject to regulation by the

City under one or more of the technical codes.

“Technical codes” means the building code, plumbing code, electrical code,

mechanical code and solar energy code which are adopted by the City.

34 14.15.020 Purpose.

It is hereby declared to be the public policy of this City to provide the best possible

environment for the operation of industry consistent with the City’s responsibility to protect

the health, safety and welfare of the citizens. It is recognized that various industries have

staff who are qualified to carry out technical activities in conformity with the technical

codes of the City. It is considered necessary to allow qualified industries to regulate

themselves so as to protect the public health and safety and perform their own technical

activities.

14.15.030 Scope of chapter.

The provisions of this chapter shall be read in conjunction with the applicable

technical codes, and nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to require

greater regulation than is set forth in the applicable technical codes.

46 14.15.040 Required.

A qualified industry shall comply with the provisions of this chapter as it relates to

the technical activities of the industry and shall be subject to regulation by the City only

to the extent of the provisions of this chapter; provided, that the industry is the holder of

a valid class B license. Notice shall be given to the Development Services Division of any

replacement of existing systems which would normally require a permit under the

applicable technical code. In no event is a qualified industry authorized by a class B

license to undertake new construction.

14.15.050 Conditions for qualifications.

An industry shall be considered qualified for a class B license only when and so

long as the following conditions are met to the reasonable satisfaction of the Code

Enforcement Director:

(a) The industry’s technical activities shall be covered by valid public liability

insurance written by a company authorized to do business in the State, or the industry

may be self-insured with limits of not less than $300,000 for injury or death of any person,

not less than $100,000 for property damage in any one occurrence, and not less than

$300,000 in aggregate limits for any one occurrence;

(b) The industry shall conduct its technical activities under the direct supervision

of a resident licensed professional engineer trained in electrical, mechanical and

plumbing areas who is a full-time employee or partner or owner of the industry, or cause

its technical activities to be checked by an independent resident licensed professional

engineer trained in electrical, mechanical and plumbing areas who shall be responsible

for certifying that the technical activities are being conducted in accordance with the

applicable technical code or codes; or

(c) The industry shall cause its technical activities to be controlled and supervised

but not necessarily performed by a full-time employee, or partner or owner, who shall

satisfy the Code Enforcement Director that he is capable by training and experience of

applying the technical codes to the extent such codes are applicable to the operations of

the particular industry. There shall be on file with the Code Enforcement Director the

name, residence and address of such person and a statement signed by such person

setting forth in detail the person’s qualifications and experience for such duties. If an

industry uses separate individuals for the supervision of its technical activities, separate

statements shall be filed by each individual;

(d) The industry shall be a holder of a current class B license.

14.15.060 Application for class B license.

(a) Application for a class B license shall be made on a form provided by the

Development Services Division and shall set forth:

(1) The industry’s agreement that its technical activities will conform to the

applicable technical codes and further that it will correct any work found not to be in

conformity.

(2) A certificate of insurance showing the industry’s compliance with the

requirement of public liability insurance or evidence of self-insurance.

(3) Written documentation of the industry’s compliance with TMC 14.15.050(b) or

89 (c).

90 (b) The application fee for a class B license shall be as specified in TMC

91 5.10.110.

92 14.15.070 Renewal.

Class B licenses shall be renewed on a yearly basis. Each industry wishing to

renew its class B license shall file with the Division of Building Inspection:

(a) Current certificate of insurance or evidence of self-insurance.

(b) The industry’s agreement that its technical activities shall conform to the

applicable technical codes.

(c) Written documentation of the industry’s compliance with TMC 14.15.050(b) or

99 (c).

(d) Renewal fee as specified in TMC 5.10.110.

14.15.080 Inspections – Revocation of license for failure to comply.

(a) The code enforcement officer and Fire Chief or their designees retain the right

of access at reasonable times to enter the premises of a class B license holder for the

purpose of making inspections to assure compliance with the appropriate technical code.

(b) Whenever the code enforcement officer shall find upon inspection that an

industry’s technical activities are not being conducted in conformity with acceptable

standards or that work has been performed in such a manner as to constitute a potential

danger to life or property, then, upon 15 days’ written notice to the holder of the class B

license, the code enforcement officer shall revoke such class B license unless within such

15 days the industry shall bring its activities into conformance with the applicable technical

codes or indicate its intent to bring its activities into conformance within a stated time

frame.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, failure by a licensed industry to

comply with applicable technical codes or failure to take corrective action as required by

the code enforcement officer shall result in a complaint being filed in Municipal Court.

(d) Any industry aggrieved by an order, ruling or decision of the code enforcement

officer pursuant to this chapter may appeal such decision to the appropriate board of

appeals, as set forth in the respective technical code.

Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its

passage, approval and publication in the official City newspaper.

Section 3. This ordinance shall supersede all ordinances, resolutions or rules,

or portions thereof, which are in conflict with the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. Should any section, clause or phrase of this ordinance be declared

invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the same shall not affect the validity of this

ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council on June 2, 2026.

127	
128		CITY OF TOPEKA, KANSAS
129		
130		
131		
132		Spencer L. Duncan, Mayor
133		
134	ATTEST:	
135		
136		
137		
138	_______________________	
139	Brenda Younger, City Clerk
