When the Utilities Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of Chapters 13.20 , 13.25 , 13.30 and 13.35 TMC, an individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the Utilities Director may impose on such user an amount not to exceed the maximum penalty as outlined below. Such administrative monetary penalties shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, administrative monetary penalties shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation. The Utilities Director shall have the authority to impose the following administrative monetary penalties:
(a) The following administrative monetary penalties shall apply to violations of the provisions relating to construction activity, erosion and sediment control and stormwater management practices in Chapters 13.20 , 13.25 , 13.30 and 13.35 TMC:
(1) Fifty dollars per violation for a first violation.
(2) One hundred dollars per violation for a second violation within a continuous 12-month period of the first violation.
(3) Two hundred dollars per violation for a third or subsequent violation within a continuous 12-month period of the two previous violations.
(b) The following administrative monetary penalties shall apply to violations of the provisions relating to the introduction of industrial or hazardous waste into the POTW:
(1) One hundred dollars per violation for a first violation.
(2) Five hundred dollars per violation for a second violation within a continuous 12-month period of the first violation.
(3) One thousand dollars per violation for a third or subsequent violation within a continuous 12-month period of the two previous violations.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Utilities Director shall have the authority to impose an administrative monetary penalty of up to $1,000 for a single violation which materially inhibits or disrupts the POTW or causes it to violate a requirement under its NPDES permit. (Ord. 20089 § 41, 10-17-17.)
