Users seeking a wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file with the Utilities Director an application in the form prescribed by the Utilities Director and accompanied by the applicable fees. The applicant may be required to submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
(a) Name and address of applicant.
(b) Volume of wastewater to be discharged.
(c) Constituents and characteristics of strength of the wastewater, including but not limited to those contained in TMC 13.20.280 and 13.20.300 concerning unlawful waste discharge and limitations on wastewater strength.
(d) Time and duration of discharge.
(e) Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any.
(f) A plat showing location and size of building sewers, sampling points, pretreatment facilities, public sewer and other pertinent details.
(g) General description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the premises, including either the principal product and the quantity per day produced or the principal raw material and the quantity per day consumed.
(h) The standard industrial classification rating describing the applicant’s facilities.
(i) Number of employees and hours of work.
(j) Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge which are limited by any City, State or Federal pretreatment standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards.
(k) If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment; the completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
(1) The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major components, commencing construction, completing construction, etc.).
(2) No increment referred to in subsection (k)(1) of this section shall exceed nine months.
(3) The user shall submit a progress report to the Water Pollution Control Division no later than 14 days following each date in a compliance schedule, and on the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the Utilities Director including, as a minimum, whether or not the user complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which the user expects to comply with the increment of progress, the reason(s) for the delay and the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the Utilities Director.
(l) A certification statement by an authorized representative of the industrial user in accordance with 40 CFR Section 403.12(l) . (Ord. 20089 § 64, 10-17-17.)
