As used in this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the meanings set out below:
“Appurtenances and environmental setting” includes, but is not limited to, walkways and driveways (whether paved or not), fences, gateways, open space and waterways. Interiors of structures are included for local historic landmarks only upon consent of the owner.
“Certificate of appropriateness” is the approval of plans for the alteration, construction, removal or demolition of historic landmarks or contributing features.
“Contributing feature” is a significant building, site, structure, or object which adds to the architectural qualities, historic association, or archaeological values of a local historic district because (1) the item was present during the district’s period of significance and (2) possesses significant historic character or is capable of yielding important information about the period of significance.
“Demolition” shall mean any and all activity that requires a demolition permit.
“Design review criteria” are standards identified in the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties.
“Design review guidelines” are standards used in addition to the design review criteria for issuing a certificate of appropriateness for individual projects or projects located within local historic districts.
“Historic asset” is a site, land area, building, structure or object, which may also include appurtenances and environmental setting, which may have historical, cultural, aesthetic, architectural and/or archaeological significance but has not been designated as a local historic landmark.
“Historic integrity” is the authenticity of a property’s historic identity, evidenced by the survival of physical characteristics that existed during the property’s prehistoric or historic period. It is a composite of original and historic characteristics, construction, elements, qualities, design, architectural features, distinctive style, craftsmanship, composition, color, texture, and other visual characteristics.
“Local historic district” encompasses a group of historic assets, consisting of three or more buildings, structures or objects which are significant as a cohesive unit and contribute to the historical, architectural, archaeological or cultural values of the City, County, State, or nation which is so designated by the City Council. The district may also include appurtenances and environmental setting with written consent from the owner(s) of record.
“Local historic landmark” is an historic asset that has been designated, with the written consent of the owner(s) of record, as having historical, architectural, archaeological, or cultural importance or value which the City Council determines shall be protected, enhanced and preserved in the interest of the culture, prosperity, education and welfare of the public. “Local historic landmark” may also include the interior of a structure, appurtenances and environmental setting with written consent from the owner(s) of record. “Local historic landmark” includes all State and nationally registered structures, provided the owner(s) of record consents in writing to the inclusion.
“Mothballing” means controlling the long-term deterioration of a building while it is unoccupied as well as finding methods to protect it from sudden loss by fire or vandalism. Mothballing includes, but is not limited to, securing the building from unwanted entry, providing adequate ventilation to the interior, shutting down or modifying existing utilities, surveillance monitoring and periodic maintenance to minimize deterioration.
“Overlay zoning” means any zoning that functions in addition to the existing land use zoning, as in the case of local historic landmark or local historic district zoning.
“Period of significance” is the span of time in which a local historic landmark or local historic district attained the significance for which it is designated.
“Permit” means authorization whether by administrative action or actions by the City Council and includes a building, demolition, moving, zoning, sign, fence, parking lot, roofing, sidewalk, siding, or swimming pool permit.
“Preservation plan” means a document developed, adopted and implemented by the Topeka Landmarks Commission that identifies trends affecting and impacting historic assets and provides guidance for their preservation. The preservation plan will include a list of all local historic landmarks and local historic districts within Topeka. The preservation plan will be a component of the comprehensive plan for the City.
“Preservation program” means the program administered by the Topeka Landmarks Commission implementing the historic preservation ordinance, the historic preservation plan, and all activities relating to the furtherance of historic preservation in Topeka.
“Preservation staff” means personnel assigned to provide staff services for the Topeka Landmarks Commission.
Project Classification. For the purpose of the certificate of appropriateness review procedure, proposed work involving a local historic landmark or property within a local historic district shall be classified as major or minor.
(1) “Major projects” include:
(i) Any undertaking requiring a certificate of appropriateness for a local historic landmark or structure within a local historic district; or
(ii) Any demolition permit or moving permit for any structure listed as a local historic landmark or contributing feature.
(2) Minor Project. Any undertaking requiring a certificate of appropriateness for a local historic landmark or property within a local historic district that proposes repairing or restoring an existing exterior element, or replacing an element or material with identical material and design to that which is existing. A list of minor projects, which can be reviewed and approved by preservation staff, shall be adopted by the Topeka Landmarks Commission.
“Uniform Code for Building Conservation” means a national code adopted by the City that provides for more flexible code review for older and historic properties. (Ord. 19901 § 3, 5-6-14.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
