The contents of the preliminary plat shall include the following:
(a) Vicinity map showing geographical location of the proposed subdivision.
(b) The proposed name of the subdivision (the name shall not duplicate or closely resemble the name or names of any existing subdivision).
(c) The location of the boundary lines in relation to the quarter section corner.
(d) The names and addresses of the developer, surveyor, landscape architect or architect who prepared the plat.
(e) The scale of the plat shall be one inch equals 200 feet or larger.
(f) Date of preparation and north point.
(g) Location, width and name of platted streets or other public ways, railroads and utility rights-of-way, parks and other public open spaces and permanent buildings within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
(h) All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts or other underground installations within the proposed subdivision or immediately adjacent thereto, showing pipe size, grades and location.
(i) Names of adjacent subdivisions, and owners of adjacent parcels of unsubdivided land.
(j) Topography with contour intervals of not more than five feet (referred to USGS datum), also location of watercourses, bridges, wooded areas, lakes, ravines, approximate acreage and such other features as may be pertinent to the subdivision.
(k) The location and width of proposed streets, roadways, highways, pedestrian ways and easements.
(l) The location and character of all proposed utility lines, including sewers (storm and sanitary), water, gas, telephone and power lines. Where new public streets or rights-of-way are proposed, a preliminary street plan which shall have cross-section and profile data of the existing conditions and of the proposed improvements. The preliminary street plan shall be reviewed by the City or County Engineer for compliance with the uniform standards. The reviewing engineer shall submit a statement to the secretary of the Planning Commission prior to the public hearing, indicating that the preliminary street plan meets with uniform standards or setting forth the provisions necessary to meet the uniform standards. If a sewage treatment plant or other type of individual or community sewage disposal system is to be installed or constructed to serve all or certain portions of the proposed subdivision, the general plan for such community type sewage treatment or disposal system shall be shown and so identified on the proposed plat.
(m) Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of all lots, and the number or letter of each block.
(n) Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches or school sites, or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to public use or reservation by deed of covenant for the use of all property owners in the subdivision and the conditions of such dedication or reservation.
(o) Building setback lines with dimensions.
(p) Indication of any lots for which uses other than residential are proposed by the subdivider.
(q) A statement, on the plat, as to how lots will be sewered.
(r) Any stream buffer easements as required by this title.
(s) A drainage report, including a stormwater management plan if required by Chapter 13.35 TMC. (Ord. 19626 § 1, 8-23-11.)
Cross References: City Engineer, TMC 2.20.100 ; Planning Commission, Chapter 2.225 TMC.
