(a) The method to be used to raise the revenue needed to finance the services will be a service fee to be levied on all hotels within the district pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1791 and amendments thereto. A “hotel” is defined as any structure or building that contains rooms furnished for the purpose of providing lodging and is used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public as a place where sleeping accommodations are sought for pay or compensation by transient guests. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee will not be imposed on the following stays at a hotel: room(s) rented as a direct purchase by the Federal government, its agencies or instrumentalities; and room(s) rented to the same guest for more than 28 consecutive days (in other words, to a permanent guest or resident of the hotel).
(b) Remittance of Service Fee. Each hotel shall remit the service fee to the City within 25 days of the close of each calendar month, in an amount established annually, by ordinance pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1791 and amendments thereto, after submission of a recommended program of services and a proposed budget from the Advisory Board to the Governing Body pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1790 and amendments thereto. The Administrative and Financial Services Department may retain two percent of the fees to cover the cost of administration.
(c) Delinquencies.
(1) Any hotel that fails to remit any fee imposed within 30 days of the date the fee is due shall pay a penalty of 10 percent of the fee in addition to the amount of the fee.
(2) In addition to the penalties imposed, any hotel that fails to remit any fee imposed shall pay interest at the rate of one-half of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the fee, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
(3) Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this section shall become part of the fee herein required to be paid. (Ord. 20064 § 3, 5-9-17.)
