“School” means any building or part thereof which is or was designed, constructed or used for education or instruction in any branch of knowledge, including any reuse for office or administrative functions designed to support school services or programs.
“School, elementary” means any school licensed by the State and which meets the State requirements for elementary education.
“School, private” means any building or group of buildings the use of which meets State requirements for primary, secondary or higher education and which use does not secure the major part of its funding from any governmental agency.
“School, secondary” means any school licensed by the State and which is authorized to award diplomas for secondary education.
“School, vocational” means a secondary or higher education facility primarily teaching usable skills that prepare students for jobs in a trade and meeting the State requirements as a vocational facility.
“Self-storage, type I” means a low intensity indoor facility serving the temporary storage needs for individuals and small businesses. Individual units have indoor access only via hallways and no business activities shall occur on the premises except for the leasing of the units.
“Self-storage, type II” means an indoor and/or outdoor facility to meet the temporary storage needs for individuals and small businesses. Individual units may have their own exterior access; the outdoor storage of recreational vehicles, boats, and motor vehicles is permitted; and no business activities shall occur on the premises except for the leasing of the units.
“Setback” means the minimum required distance between a building and the lot line or street right-of-way line, whichever is applicable.
“Setback line” means that line that is the required minimum distance from the street right-of-way line or any other lot line that establishes the area within which the principal structure must be erected or placed.
“Setback regulations” means the requirements of building laws that a building be set back a certain distance from the street or lot line either on the street level or at a prescribed height.
“Sewage system” means a facility designed for the collection, removal, treatment and disposal of waterborne sewage generated within a given service area.
“Shop” means a use devoted primarily to the sale of a service or a product or products, but the service is performed or the product to be sold is prepared in its finished form on the premises.
“Shopping center” means a group of retail stores, originally planned and developed as a single unit, with immediate adjoining off-street parking facilities.
“Short-term residential rental, type I” means any owner-occupied dwelling which: (1) contains rooms furnished for the purposes of providing lodging to transient guests; (2) is kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public as a place where sleeping accommodations are available for pay or compensation by transient guests; and (3) has no more than five bedrooms furnished for the accommodation of such guests.
“Short-term residential rental, type II” means any non-owner-occupied dwelling which (1) contains rooms furnished for the purposes of providing lodging to transient guests; (2) is kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public as a place where sleeping accommodations are available for pay or compensation by transient guests; and (3) has no more than five bedrooms furnished for the accommodation of such guests.
“Short-term residential rental, type III” means any dwelling, which may or may not be owner-occupied, and which (1) contains rooms furnished for the purposes of providing lodging to transient guests; (2) is kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public as a place where sleeping accommodations are available for pay or compensation by transient guests; and (3) has six or more bedrooms furnished for the accommodation of such guests.
“Site” means a specific location for the placement, erection or construction of a building, facility or establishment.
“Site-built home” means a home on a permanent foundation erected by the process of assembling individual building materials or members on site and subject to adopted construction codes and safety standards.
“Site plan” means a plan to scale, showing accurately and with complete dimensioning the boundaries of a site and the location of all buildings, structures, uses, drives, parking, drainage, landscaping, and other principal site development improvements for a specific parcel of land.
“Small cell wireless facility” or “SCWF” means a wireless facility that meets all of the following qualifications:
(1) Antenna. Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume, or in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all of the antenna’s exposed elements could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet;
(2) Equipment. Primary equipment enclosures that are no larger than 17 cubic feet in volume, or facilities comprised of such higher limits as the Federal Communications Commission has excluded from review pursuant to 54 U.S.C. Section 306108 . Associated equipment may be located outside the primary equipment and, if so located, is not to be included in the calculation of equipment volume. Associated equipment includes, but is not limited to, any electric meter, concealment, telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, back-up power systems, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
(3) Height.
(i) Fifty feet in height or less; or
(ii) The structure is no more than 10 percent higher than that of adjacent structures or as prescribed in Federal law.
“Specified anatomical area” means less than completely or opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, and human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
“Specified sexual activities” means human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals or pubic region.
“Stacking space” means a paved surface which is designed to accommodate a motor vehicle waiting for entry to any drive-through facility or auto-oriented use, which is located in such a way that a parking space or access to a parking space is not obstructed, and which is at least nine feet in width and 19 feet in length. Stacking spaces commence 10 feet behind the middle of the pickup window.
“Standards” means site design regulations such as lot area, height limits, frontage, landscaping, yards, and floor area ratio, as distinguished from use restrictions.
“Storage” means holding or safekeeping goods in a warehouse or other depository to await the happening of some future event or contingency which will call for the removal of the goods.
“Street” means a right-of-way dedicated to the public use, or a private right-of-way serving more than one ownership, which provides principal vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
“Street line” means a dividing line between a lot and a street right-of-way.
“Structural alterations” means any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
“Structurally altered” means the making of such a substantial change in the construction, identity, and use of the present building.
“Structure” means anything which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or any place of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner, which requires location on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground. It includes buildings, towers, cages for transformer substations, pergolas, and billboards but excludes poles, fences, retaining walls, air-conditioning units, posts, and other minor incidental improvements.
“Stub street” means a nonpermanent dead-end street that is intended to be extended in conjunction with the subdivision and development of the adjacent unplatted land. Access from the stub street shall be permitted only along the frontage of such street to the lots in the subdivision containing the stub street.
“Subdivision” means division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more parts for the purpose of ownership or building development.
Subdivision Plat. See “plat of a subdivision.” (Ord. 20283 § 5, 3-2-21.)
