(a) The Municipal Judge shall have the power to administer the oaths and enforce all orders, rules and judgments made by such Municipal Judge; may issue search warrants based on probable cause for violations of municipal ordinance, excluding warrants sought by the Public Works Director or designated employees of that Department; and may fine or imprison for contempt in the same manner and to the same extent as a judge of the district court.
(b) The Municipal Judge shall have the power to hear and determine all cases properly brought before such Municipal Judge and to: issue search or arrest warrants for violations of municipal ordinance, excluding warrants sought by the Environmental Code Services Director or employees of that agency; grant continuances; sentence those found guilty to a fine or confinement in jail, or both; commit accused persons to jail in default of bond; determine applications for parole; release on probation; grant time in which a fine may be paid; correct a sentence; suspend imposition of a sentence; set aside a judgment; permit time for post-trial motions; and discharge accused persons.
(c) The Municipal Judge shall maintain a docket in which every cause commenced before such Municipal Judge shall be entered. Such docket shall contain the names of the accused persons and complainant, the nature or character of the offense, the date of trial, the names of all witnesses sworn and examined, the finding of the court, the judgment and sentence, the date of payment, the date of issuing commitment, if any, and every other fact necessary to show the full proceedings in each case.
(d) The Municipal Judge shall promptly make such reports and furnish the information requested by any departmental justice or the judicial administrator, in the manner and form prescribed by the supreme court.
(e) The Municipal Judge shall ensure that information concerning dispositions of City ordinance violations that result in convictions comparable to convictions for class A and B misdemeanors under Kansas Criminal Statutes is forwarded to the Kansas Bureau of Investigation central repository. This information shall be transmitted, on a form or in a format approved by the Attorney General, within 30 days of final disposition. (Ord. 20206 § 9, 9-10-19; Ord. 18734 § 2, 10-17-06; Ord. 18209 § 1, 4-6-04; Ord. 17929 § 1, 12-17-02; Ord. 17666 § 6, 3-27-01. Code 1995 § 50-41. Formerly 2.110.070.)
Cross References: Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
State Law References: Similar State statute, K.S.A. 12-4106 .
