(a) Petition Requirements. A petition to vacate any street, alley or public reservation, including but not limited to public easements, dedicated building setback lines, access control, and additions or parts thereof, shall include the following:
(1) A completed application form provided by the Planning Department.
(2) An acknowledgment executed by each adjoining property owner that such property owner has no objection to the petition.
(3) A sufficient survey, diagram, drawing, or description of the street, alley, easement, or other public reservation that is the subject of the petition.
(4) A filing fee of $250.00.
(b) Filing of Petition – Review. The petition and all required information, including the filing fee, shall be submitted to the Planning Department. The Planning Department shall review the petition and solicit comment from applicable City/County departments and public utility agencies with respect to reserving public service interests as authorized by State law.
(c) Notice. Upon finding the petition to be in compliance with the petition requirements, the Planning Director shall give notice of the same by a publication for two consecutive weeks in the official City newspaper. The notice shall describe the property fully, specifying the certain date and naming the day on which the petition will be presented to the Governing Body for a hearing thereon, and that at such time and place all persons interested can appear and be heard. Furthermore, the Planning Department shall notify by mail all property owners affected by the proposed vacation of the date of the hearing thereon, and that at such time and place all persons interested can appear and be heard. The Planning Department shall transmit a report and recommendation, including the comments of applicable utilities and agencies, to the City Clerk for presentation to the Governing Body. (Ord. 19816 § 1, 5-7-13.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
