The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
“Apprentice” or “helper” means an individual who works as an employee in training under the direct supervision of a journeyman or master. An apprentice or helper is not a licensed individual.
“Contractor license” means a license issued by the City allowing an individual to engage in the business or occupations of construction and building as set forth in this chapter.
“Development Services Director” shall mean the Director of the Development Services Division or designee.
“Direct supervision” means that the apprentice is limited to the same structure or building site as the journeyman or master.
“Electrical trades” means the construction, repair or installation of electrical systems.
“Inactive journeyman license” shall mean a license issued by the City which demonstrates that the individual has been qualified to perform work as a journeyman but which does not currently allow the individual to perform any licensed work.
“Inactive master license” shall mean a license issued by the City which demonstrates that the individual has been qualified to engage in a licensed trade but which does not currently allow the individual to perform any licensed work.
“Journeyman” means an individual that holds a license issued pursuant to this chapter evidencing such person to be qualified to lay out, install, maintain and repair work in mechanical, electrical and plumbing trades. A journeyman is responsible for the supervision of any apprentice assigned to work with him.
“Laborer” means a nonregistered individual engaged in physical work requiring minimal training or skill. Work activities are limited to matters other than installation.
“Licensed trade” or “trade” means the mechanical, electrical, or plumbing trade, as the context of this chapter may require.
“Licensed trade contractor” means a person that engages in the business of mechanical, electrical, or plumbing.
“Limited journeyman license” shall mean a license issued by the City to engage in a particular area within the licensed trades such as sheet metal, lawn irrigation, backflow testing/repair or water conditioner/softener.
“Limited master license” shall mean a license issued by the City to engage in an area within the licensed trades described in the license specified.
“Master” means an individual who holds a license issued pursuant to this chapter evidencing such person to be qualified to control and have authority of all technical work performed under the authority of the contractor’s mechanical, electrical or plumbing business and assures quality control and is responsible for compliance with all applicable laws, codes and regulations.
“Mechanical trade” means the construction, repair or installation of heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems including, but not limited to, sheet metal, gas fitting, heating and cooling, and solid fuels.
“Nontrade contractor license” means all contractor licenses except those for the licensed trades.
“Plumbing trade” means the construction, repair or installation of plumbing systems including, but not limited to, lawn irrigation, backflow testing/repair and water softener/conditioner systems.
“Trade board” means that board appointed for each licensed trade for the purpose of reviewing code interpretations taken by the Development Services Division, granting variances from the code, reviewing license applications and license suspensions and revocation.
“Trade code” means the current version of the electrical, mechanical, and plumbing codes as adopted by the City Council, as the context of this chapter may require.
“Trade contractor license” shall entitle the holder thereof to contract for and to perform any act as a contractor to construct, remodel, repair, or remove the plumbing, electrical, or mechanical systems or facilities for which the contractor has passed the required examination or has in its employ the appropriate master. (Ord. 19938 § 20, 2-10-15.)
