The comprehensive metropolitan plan shall comply with K.S.A. 12-741 , et seq., and amendments thereto and shall consist of plan elements in such descriptive form, written and/or graphic, as may be appropriate to prescribe the goals, objectives, policies, standards and guidelines for the orderly and balanced future economic, social, physical, environmental and fiscal development of the metropolitan area. The plan therefore shall include the elements contained in K.S.A. 12-747 and amendments thereto, and may include, but shall not be limited to, the following elements:
(a) A statement of goals consistent with this chapter which shall describe the purpose, the desires, the aims, the condition and the state of the community to be achieved in the future as a result of the continuous planning process.
(b) A future land use plan and growth management element which shall designate the projected future general distribution, location and extent, and intensity of uses of land for housing, business, industry, agriculture, recreation, conservation, public or community facilities, and other public/private uses of land throughout the metropolitan area.
(c) A transportation or circulation plan element which shall consist of the types, locations and extent of existing and projected major transportation routes and network, including routes and facilities for the various modes of transportation throughout the metropolitan area.
(d) A public/community facilities element which shall include the location, type, extent and distribution of existing and projected major facilities which are essential to accommodate the orderly growth and harmonious development of the metropolitan area. This plan element shall include such facilities as water, sewer, drainage, solid waste, utilities (electric, gas, telephone and communications), libraries, hospitals, public buildings, schools and educational institutions, airports, and other facilities as may be deemed necessary.
(e) An open space, parks and recreation plan element which shall include the location, type and extent of existing and projected open space and recreational facilities to accommodate the projected orderly growth and harmonious development of the metropolitan area.
(f) A housing plan element which shall include the standards, principles, extent and location guidelines to meet the housing needs of the orderly growth and harmonious development of the metropolitan area.
(g) A conservation and preservation plan element which shall include the standards, principles, extent and provisions to protect natural resources, together with identified structures and places deemed to be historically significant to the metropolitan area.
(h) Economic development element which shall include strategies for fostering new investments in targeted businesses and expanded tax base. It shall also address regional economic development strategies and programs for retention and expansion of existing businesses and industries.
(i) Public safety element which shall include strategies that reflect standards for a livable and safe community.
(j) Facility system plan element including, but not limited to, developing strategies for waste management, pedestrian trails and transportation.
(k) Neighborhood plans for all geographic subareas of Topeka. Such areas shall be determined by the Topeka Planning Commission.
(l) An intergovernmental coordination element which shall include a description of the relationships and a statement of the principles and guidelines to be followed in accomplishing the coordination of the comprehensive metropolitan plan with the plans of other units of local government providing public services but not having regulatory authority over the use of land.
(m) A capital improvement plan element which shall describe the public facilities to be provided, together with the justification, the priority of need, the timetable for accomplishment, and the anticipated public expenditures required. This element shall consist of an annual element and a five-year element and shall be adopted annually. Such public projects and related financial plans shall be consistent with and implement the goals, policies, objectives and programs of the comprehensive metropolitan plan.
(n) An implementation plan element which shall include the legal framework, regulatory controls, budgetary requests, land use policies and management procedures to be followed in implementing the comprehensive metropolitan plan.
(o) Any other element deemed necessary to the proper orderly growth and harmonious development or redevelopment of the planning jurisdiction. (Ord. 18125 § 11, 11-18-03; Ord. 18094 § 26, 9-23-03. Code 1981 § 33-52. Code 1995 § 110-72.)
