(a) Bids. All bids related to the repair and rehabilitation of real property that involve the use of Federal funds shall be submitted to the Director of the Department of Planning and Development (“Director”) or designee, in accordance with the following procedures and conditions:
(1) Sealed bid proposals must be received by the Department of Planning and Development (“Department”) at the time stated in the invitation to bid and in conformance with all requirements of the bid invitation and the project specifications.
(2) The Department shall maintain a list of qualified contractors by trade and type of work to whom bid invitations are offered. The Department will establish written administrative policies for the acceptance and removal of contractors for purposes of establishing a qualified bidders list.
(3) No bid bond or deposit is required to be submitted with a proposal; however, no advance payments for an awarded contract shall be made. Payments for contract work shall only be made for completed work and acceptably installed material. A retainage may be designated to be withheld from payment to the contractor until final completion of the entire project.
(4) Bidders shall have in force adequate liability and workers compensation insurance coverage as determined by the Department in consultation with the risk management officials of the City.
(5) The awarding of a contract can only be made jointly by the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or designee, and the property owner.
(6) Each bidder must furnish accurate current information as to name, residence, post office address and Federal tax identification number. Failure to keep this information current may be sufficient cause for removal from the qualified bidders list.
(7) The Director may provide for a method of probationary inclusion of contractors on the qualified bidders list due to a contractor’s lack of experience in certain types of work or shortcomings in completing work.
(8) The Department reserves the right to reject any or all bids and to waive defects in bids or, if necessary, to make other adjustments that the Director may deem advisable within the limits of the law. The Department reserves the right to reject bids received by persons or firms who may be in arrears to the City or who may be otherwise legally obligated and raise legitimate questions as to their ability to fulfill a contract.
(9) Bidders are invited to be present at the opening of bids. All bids are made with the understanding that the bidder must accept the terms and conditions contained in the contract documents.
(10) The Department also reserves the right to delay the awarding of contracts in order to provide sufficient time within which to conduct a thorough investigation of equipment and material to be purchased or the subcontractors to be used.
(11) Bids must be made on forms supplied by the Department, unless otherwise indicated in the invitation for bids.
(12) Contractors shall be required to provide lien waivers or other acceptable evidence of payment to subcontractors and material suppliers as determined by the Department.
(13) Except as specifically modified by this section, all bids and contracts referred to herein shall comply with the City of Topeka purchasing regulations as established by Articles I through IV of this chapter.
(b) Exceptions. Due to the nature and purposes of the various housing assistance programs provided (e.g., emergency assistance, assistance to persons with disabilities and other limited assistance activities) the Director of the Department of Planning and Development, or designee, reserves the right to follow informal bid procedures in order to prevent unnecessary delay in providing assistance, undue hardship to the program recipients, unnecessary administrative costs or the continued detrimental health and safety conditions for the applicant, neighbors or the City. (Ord. 20300 § 24, 6-8-21.)
Cross References: Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
