In any zoning district, for all structures built and all uses established after February 25, 1992, off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the following regulations:
(a) Scope of Regulations.
(1) New Construction and New Uses. For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land established after February 25, 1992, accessory off-street parking facilities shall be provided in accordance with the provisions contained herein.
(2) Expansion of a Building or Use. When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises shall be increased, additional parking facilities shall be provided as follows:
(i) Whenever a building, structure or use existing prior to February 25, 1992, is enlarged to the extent of less than 50 percent in floor area, the addition or enlargement shall comply with the parking requirements set forth herein.
(ii) Whenever a building, structure or use existing prior to February 25, 1992, is enlarged by one or more additions, the sum total of which increases the floor area to the extent of 50 percent or more, the uses contained within the original building or structure and all enlargements shall thereafter comply with the parking requirements set forth herein.
(iii) Whenever an existing single-family dwelling with more than 950 square feet in floor area has less than two parking spaces, it shall be permitted to expand by not more than 25 percent in floor area without having to comply with the off-street parking requirements set forth herein.
(3) Change of Use. Whenever a use existing prior to February 25, 1992, shall be changed to a new use, parking facilities shall be provided as required for such new use.
(4) Exempt District. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no parking facilities shall be required for any building or use permitted in the D-1 or D-3 districts.
(b) Existing Parking Facilities. Accessory off-street parking facilities in existence on February 25, 1992, and located on the same zoning lot as the building or use served shall not hereafter be reduced below or, if already less than, shall not be further reduced below the requirements for a similar new building or use.
(c) Permissive Parking Facilities. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the establishment of additional off-street parking facilities to serve any existing building or use; provided, that all regulations herein governing the location, design, and operation of such facilities are satisfied.
(d) Damage or Destruction. Whenever a building or use existing prior to February 25, 1992, and for which the required number of parking spaces is not provided, is damaged or destroyed by fire, tornado or other natural causes to the extent of 50 percent or more of its fair market value, the building, structure or use shall only be rebuilt or restored in compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 20062 § 39, 4-18-17.)
