(a) Whenever officials of the City’s Utilities Department investigate any localized settlements or collapses in public streets, easements, alleys or rights-of-way and determine that such settlement or collapse has occurred due to inadequacies of a public sewer line, then the Water Pollution Control Division may make or cause to be made immediate repairs and backfill the excavation. However, if the settlement or collapse is found to have resulted from inadequacies in a private sewer line, then the Utilities Director or designee shall direct the property owner from which the building service line extends to repair the service line within seven days.
(b) The property owner may, through written request, authorize the Water Pollution Control Division to cause a private sewer line to be repaired and reimburse the Water Pollution Control Division for any cost and expenses incurred therewith.
(c) The Water Pollution Control Division shall exercise diligence, including sending a certified letter, return receipt requested, in attempting to locate and direct the property owner to repair the service line. However, if such property owner cannot be located or if such property owner fails to secure the service of a contractor to repair the private sewer service line within 72 hours of having received notice from the Utilities Director, then the Water Pollution Control Division may cause the private sewer line situated in the public right-of-way to be repaired and excavation backfilled. The property owner shall be responsible for any cost and expenses incurred in connection with such repair.
(d) The Water Pollution Control Division shall submit a bill to the owner of any property for which it caused a private sewer line to be repaired. If the owner of any property for which the Water Pollution Control Division has caused placement or repair of a private sewer service line shall neglect, fail or refuse to pay the cost or expenses incurred by the Water Pollution Control Division, such charges shall constitute a lien upon the real estate from which the private sewer line extends, and shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk, to be placed on the tax roll for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as other taxes are by law collectable.
(e) The officials of the Utilities Department shall be authorized to inspect any sewer repair work done in public rights-of-way or easements pursuant to the provisions of this section. (Ord. 20089 § 46, 10-17-17.)
Cross References: City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 .
