(1) Natural Gas Fees by a Provider Required to Have a Franchise. In consideration of and as compensation for the franchise granted to the Provider by the City, the Provider shall make an accounting on a monthly basis to the City of all sales, distribution, or transportation to any Consumer, or User for use within the City by the Provider or by others through the Distribution Facilities of the Provider. The Provider shall pay the City a franchise fee calculated as follows:
(a) A sum equal to five percent (5%) of the Gross Receipts.
(b) A sum equal to the Volumetric Rate multiplied by the number of MCF of natural gas transported or distributed by the Provider.
Such sums shall be adjusted for uncollectible receivables and for uncollectible receivables which are later collected. Such payments shall be made to the City under procedures established by the City Treasurer within thirty (30) days of the last day of the month to which such accounting shall apply.
(2) Natural Gas Fees by a Provider Through a Franchised Entity. In consideration of and as compensation for the use of the Public Right-of-Way, any Provider using the Distribution System of a Franchised Entity (other than Provider) shall pay the City through the Franchised Entity a fee calculated in the manner provided in Section 4(1)(b). Such payments shall be made monthly under procedures established by the Franchised Entity.
(3) Other Energy Fees. In consideration of and as compensation for the franchise granted to the Provider by the City, the Provider shall make an accounting and provide compensation to the City for the transportation, distribution, and sale of Other Energy to any Consumer, or User for use within the City by the Provider or by others through the Distribution Facilities of the Provider. The Provider shall pay the City a franchise fee that is calculated in a manner provided in each franchise that is substantially equivalent to the fees paid by Providers of natural gas, taking into account the alternative form of energy, its value per unit, and the amount of energy necessary for light, heat, power, or other purposes. (Ord. 18296 § 4, 7-20-04.)
