The following uses, activities, encroachments, and conditions are prohibited in stormwater management facilities:
(a) Willful alteration or relocation of a facility from its approved design or constructed condition or location as indicated by the stormwater BMP record drawing which is recorded as a covenant on the property or, in the absence of said drawing, by the approved stormwater management plan, drainage report, or plat for the property, when such alteration or relocation occurs without prior written approval by the Director.
(b) Spraying, filling, and dumping of any material or waste, including the land application of biosolids or animal waste, unless such activity is a result of an emergency.
(c) Storage for commercial or industrial land uses, including but not limited to storage of vehicles, equipment, materials, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, or household or commercially generated wastes.
(d) Disposal of sewage, on-site sewage disposal and treatment systems (septic systems), whether underground or raised, or subsurface discharges from a wastewater treatment plant.
(e) Use as a waste storage area, whether temporary or permanent, or a landfill of any type, including, but not limited to, demolition, permitted and closed-in-place landfills, and household garbage pits.
(f) Abandoned, closed or active junkyards or other similar waste fields.
(g) Vehicle trafficways, driveways or temporary parking, unless the stormwater management facility has been designed for the dual purposes of stormwater management and vehicle parking (e.g., permeable pavement).
(h) Storage, whether temporary or permanent, of motorized vehicles or equipment awaiting or undergoing repair, or of such vehicles or equipment that are unmaintained or infrequently used.
(i) Farms, feedlots, confined animal feed operations, animal pastures, concentrated animal lots, dog parks or outdoor animal play/relief areas for animal care facilities, kennels, and commercial/business developments or facilities that provide short-term or long-term care of animals.
(j) Gardens installed solely for the cultivation of plants, fruits, or vegetables that do not meet the design requirements for a bioretention area (rain garden), orchards, crops or greenhouses, whether associated with a farm, commercial business or residence.
(k) Installation of impervious surfaces, except when such surfaces are included in the approved design, or are necessary for a stream crossing or other condition having the approval of the Director.
(l) Other land uses or activities deemed by the Director to have the potential to:
(1) Generate pollutant loadings that may be harmful to the health of the vegetation or soil in the practice or to the health of on-site or downstream water body(s); or
(2) Modify the function of the facility as designed and constructed for the management of stormwater to prevent pollution, downstream channel erosion, and/or flooding, unless said modification is authorized in writing by the Director. (Ord. 20262 § 13, 10-6-20.)
