(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon any roadway or remain alongside any roadway at any of the intersections designated in TMC 10.80.020 and approach a vehicle stopped on the roadway or attempt to attract the attention of the driver or occupant of a motor vehicle for the purpose of inducing the driver of the motor vehicle to remain stopped, slow or stop the vehicle to facilitate a transfer of anything from the driver or occupant of the vehicle to the pedestrian or the transfer of anything by the pedestrian to the driver or occupant.
(b) No person shall be upon the median of a roadway at any of the intersections designated in TMC 10.80.020 unless that person is in the process of crossing the roadway.
(c) No person shall activate a pedestrian crosswalk signal for any purpose other than to stop traffic to allow such person to cross the roadway.
(d) It is prima facie evidence of a violation of subsections (b) and (c) of this section if the person stays on the median or at the intersection through two consecutive opportunities to legally cross the roadway. This may include a change in the traffic control signal or lack of traffic. After two such consecutive opportunities, such person shall not be considered to be using the crosswalk for purposes of the exception in subsection (f)(1) of this section.
(e) No driver or operator of a motor vehicle shall park, stop, or leave standing a vehicle on a roadway at any of the intersections designated in TMC 10.80.020 or suddenly decrease the speed of such vehicle or deviate from a traffic lane for the purpose of responding to persons violating subsection (a) , (b) , or (c) of this section.
(f) Exceptions. This chapter does not apply to:
(1) Persons using a crosswalk to cross the roadway.
(2) Persons engaged in law enforcement, emergency, or rescue activities, including providing assistance to an injured or disabled vehicle or person.
(3) Persons engaged in repair or maintenance activities of highways under the direction of the City or State.
(4) Streets or portions thereof that have been closed pursuant to authorization from the City, including but not limited to special events permitted pursuant to Chapter 12.70 TMC. (Ord. 20234 § 3, 1-7-20.)
