“Habitable room” means a room in a dwelling unit designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating, or cooking, excluding bathrooms, closets, halls, storage and similar space.
“Handcrafts” means any occupation in which articles are fashioned totally or chiefly by hand with manual and often artistic skill involved, materials normally being leather, malleable metals, plastics, glass, fabrics or wood.
“Health care facility” means a facility or institution, whether public or private, principally engaged in providing services for health maintenance, diagnosis or treatment of human disease, pain, injury, deformity or physical condition, including, but not limited to, a general hospital, special hospital, mental hospital, public health center, diagnostic center, treatment center, rehabilitation center, extended care facility, skilled nursing home, nursing home, intermediate care facility, tuberculosis hospital, chronic disease hospital, maternity hospital, outpatient clinic, dispensary, home health care agency, boarding house or other home for sheltered care, and bioanalytical laboratory or central services facility serving one or more such institutions but excluding institutions that provide healing solely by prayer.
“Health services” means establishments primarily engaged in furnishing medical, surgical or other services to individuals, including the offices of physicians, dentists and other health practitioners, medical and dental laboratories, outpatient care facilities, blood banks, and oxygen and miscellaneous types of medical supplies and services.
“Height of building” means the vertical distance above a reference datum measured to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof. The reference datum shall be selected by either of the following, whichever yields a greater height of building:
(1) The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface within a five-foot horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than 10 feet above lowest grade.
(2) An elevation 10 feet higher than the lowest grade when the sidewalk or ground surface described in subsection (1) of this definition is more than 10 feet above lowest grade.
The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum height of any segment of the building.
“Home care, type I” means a dwelling or portion thereof, and premises, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, where caring is provided on a 24-hour-a-day basis for up to eight individuals unrelated to the operator/owner and who, due to functional impairment, need personal care and may need supervised nursing care to compensate for activities of daily living limitations.
“Home care, type II” means a dwelling or portion thereof, and premises, operated and licensed in accordance with any and all applicable State and local requirements, where caring is provided on a 24-hour-a-day basis for up to 12 individuals unrelated to the operator/owner and who, due to functional impairment, need personal care and may need supervised nursing care to compensate for activities of daily living limitations.
“Home occupation” means any activity carried out for gain by a resident, conducted within the limitations and performance standards established by these regulations, as an accessory use in the resident’s dwelling unit.
“Hospital” means an institution providing health services, primarily for inpatients, and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the institution such related facilities as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
“Hotel” means a building or group of buildings offering transient lodging accommodations normally on a daily rate to the general public, where access to the rooms is made through a lobby, and with or without accessory uses, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, or recreational facilities. (Ord. 19707 § 2, 2-28-12.)
