(a) General. Cut and fill slopes shall be set back from site boundaries in accordance with this section. Setback dimensions shall be horizontal distances measured perpendicular to the site boundary.
(b) Top of Cut Slope. The top of cut slopes shall be made not nearer to a site boundary line than one-fifth of the vertical height of cut with a minimum of two feet and a maximum of 10 feet. The setback may need to be increased for any required interceptor drains.
(c) Toe of Fill Slope. The toe of any fill or stockpile slope shall be made not nearer to the site boundary line than one-half the height of the slope with a minimum of two feet and a maximum of 20 feet. Where a fill or stockpile slope is to be located near the site boundary and the adjacent off-site property is developed, special precautions shall be incorporated into the work as the Public Works Director deems necessary to protect the adjoining property from damage as a result of such grading. These precautions may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Additional setbacks.
(2) Provision for retaining or slough walls.
(3) Mechanical or chemical treatment of the fill slope surface to minimize erosion.
(4) Provisions for the control of surface waters.
(d) Modification of Slope Location. The Public Works Director may approve alternate setbacks. The Public Works Director may require an investigation and recommendation by a qualified engineer or engineering geologist to demonstrate that the intent of this section has been satisfied.
(e) Final Contours. Contours, elevations and shapes of finished surfaces are to be blended with adjacent natural terrain to achieve a consistent grade and natural appearance. The tops and toes of cut and fill slopes are to be rounded off to a minimum radius of five feet to blend with the natural terrain.
(f) Disposal of Cleared or Excavated Materials.
(1) Vegetation removed during clearing of the site may be chipped, to the extent possible, and stockpiled on the site for use as mulch. Vegetation that is not usable should be disposed of properly.
(2) Topsoil excavated from the site should be stockpiled and protected from erosion while grading operations are underway; provided, that such storage is not located where it would cause suffocation of root systems of trees intended to be preserved. After completion of grading, topsoil should be restored to exposed cut and fill embankments or building pads to provide a suitable base for seeding and planting.
(3) Methods of disposal of any other excavated material should be approved by the Public Works Department. (Ord. 16432 § 6(6), 3-10-92. Code 1995 § 66-126.)
