(a) It shall be the duty of every person owning any dwelling house or any other building within the City to make connections with the public sanitary sewer for the purpose of disposing of all substances from any such building, affecting the public health, which may be lawfully and properly disposed of by means of such sewer. Connection with the public sanitary sewer is required when the main or lateral sewer is adjacent to the property and one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1) The septic system serving the property constitutes a public nuisance. The Utilities Director for the City is hereby designated to determine when a septic system is a public nuisance; and/or
(2) The property changes ownership; and/or
(3) Modifications are made to the main structure located on the property that requires issuance of a building permit; and/or
(4) Within five years of the construction of the public main or lateral sanitary sewer, such time not starting any sooner than the effective date of this chapter.
(b) Failure to Connect – Service Assessment. If any person shall fail, neglect or refuse to connect any such building with the sewer system as provided by this article for more than 30 calendar days or in the case of public nuisance for more than 10 days after being notified in writing by the Department of Public Works or their designee to do so, the City may advertise for bids for the construction and make contracts therefor to the lowest responsible bidder and may cause such buildings or premises to be connected with the sewer system and may assess the cost of expense including any applicable connection fees thereof against the property and premises so connected, such assessment to be made in the same manner as other special assessments are made. The City and its designated representatives shall have the right of entry onto properties for the purposes set forth in this article.
(c) Extension of Time to Connect. The City Manager may extend the time to make connection with the public sanitary sewer if City-administered loan money for qualifying property owners is not available at the written request of the person owning the dwelling or other building and the requester is a qualified property owner. (Ord. 20089 § 42, 10-17-17.)
Cross References: Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
