(a) Promulgation and Posting. The City Manager, in consultation with the Director of Human Resources, shall promulgate and issue administrative policies, rules, regulations and procedures related to personnel, as well as amendments to such provisions, through a Personnel Manual. The City Manager, in conjunction with the Director of Human Resources, shall ensure that this Personnel Manual is in effect and updated on a periodic basis. The City Clerk shall post the Personnel Manual on the City’s website and maintain one copy of the City Personnel Manual in his/her office for purposes of making said document available to the public. The City Clerk shall make copies available pursuant to the City’s open records policy.
(b) Scope. All persons employed by the City shall be subject to the provisions of the Personnel Manual with the exception of elected officials and independent contractors.
(c) Conflicts with Bargaining Unit Agreements. Any terms or conditions contained in: (1) an agreement negotiated between the City and a recognized bargaining unit, (2) an applicable ordinance or resolution, or (3) the Topeka Municipal Code shall control in the event of a conflict with specific terms or conditions contained in the Personnel Manual. Furthermore, no salary increases granted by the City pay plan shall be or become effective for any employees covered by such an existing labor agreement or for any employees subject to or involved in labor negotiations during the term of such agreement or negotiations, unless specifically provided in a labor agreement.
(d) Deviations. The City Manager and the Director of Human Resources may permit deviations from the provisions contained in the Personnel Manual; provided, however, that any approved deviation must be in writing and executed by the City Manager and the Director of Human Resources.
(e) Standard operating procedures. In addition to the provisions contained in the Personnel Manual, a department director shall have the authority to issue written rules and regulations concerning personnel matters in order to govern situations that are unique to the particular department; provided, however, that the process for amending the Personnel Manual is adhered to. For disciplinary and termination purposes, a violation of departmental rules and/or regulations shall be considered the same as a violation of the Personnel Manual.
(f) Compliance. Any person who knowingly violates or conspires to violate the provisions of this title or the Personnel Manual may be disciplined consistent with the nature and extent of the violation. (Ord. 20206 § 26, 9-10-19.)
Cross References: City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 .
