(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or conduct a private security business without obtaining a license as provided in this article.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any private security firm to allow any person to perform work as an employee, agent, or guard unless the person has obtained a license as provided in this article.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to perform work as an employee, agent or guard of a private security firm without obtaining a license as provided in this article.
(d) This article is intended to be in addition to all other permits or licenses vested in persons by the State, County or City, and it shall not be a defense to the failure to secure a license to protect or preserve the peace of one or more establishments that the person had such other authority.
(e) The following persons shall not be deemed to be private security guards and shall not be required to obtain a license to act as a private security guard:
(1) Persons employed exclusively and regularly by one employer in connection only with the affairs of such employer, where there exists an employer-employee relationship, and where the operation is conducted solely and completely on the property of the employer.
(2) Any officer or employee of the United States, of this State, or of a political subdivision thereof, while engaged in the performance of the office or the employee’s official duties.
(3) State-certified law enforcement officers as defined in K.S.A. 74-5602 et seq., and amendments thereto.
(4) Any person who holds a valid commission as an officer of the Topeka, Kansas, police reserves or any person who holds a valid commission as an officer of the Shawnee County sheriff’s office reserve and who has successfully completed training as a reserve officer, except such persons shall not be exempt from the fee requirements of TMC 5.10.160 .
(5) Private detectives licensed in the State pursuant to K.S.A. 75-7b04 , and amendments thereto. (Ord. 19654 § 1, 10-11-11.)
