It shall be unlawful for any licensee or holder of a temporary permit issued under the State Club and Drinking Establishment Act to:
(a) Employ any person under the age of 18 years in connection with the serving of alcoholic liquor.
(b) Knowingly employ or continue in employment any person in connection with the dispensing or serving of alcoholic liquor or the mixing of drinks containing alcoholic liquor who has been adjudged guilty of a felony or of any crime involving a morals charge in this or any other state, or of the United States.
(c) Knowingly employ or continue in employment any person in connection with the serving of alcoholic liquor or the mixing of drinks containing alcoholic liquor who has been adjudged guilty of two or more violations of K.S.A. 21-5607 and amendments thereto, furnishing alcoholic liquor to minors or a similar law of any other state, or of the United States, pertaining to furnishing alcoholic liquor to minors within the immediately preceding five years, or who has been adjudged guilty of three or more violations of any intoxicating liquor law of this or any other state, or of the United States, not involving the furnishing of alcoholic liquor to minors within the immediately preceding five years. For purposes of this section, participation by a person in a diversionary program involving any such charge described in this section shall not be considered a conviction of such charge.
(d) In the case of a club, fail to maintain at the licensed premises a current list of all members and their residence addresses, or refuse to allow the Director, any of the Director’s authorized agents or any law enforcement officer to inspect such list.
(e) Purchase alcoholic liquor from any person except from a person authorized by law to sell such alcoholic liquor to such licensee or permit holder.
(f) Permit any employee of the licensee or permit holder who is under the age of 21 years to work on premises where alcoholic liquor is sold by such licensee or permit holder at any time when not under the on-premises supervision of the licensee, permit holder, or an employee who is 21 years of age or over.
(g) Employ any person under 21 years of age in connection with the mixing or dispensing of drinks containing alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 20175 § 28, 3-12-19.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
State Law References: Similar provisions, K.S.A. 41-2610 .
