For the purpose of this Contract Franchise Ordinance, the following words and phrases and their derivations shall have the following meaning:
“Facilities” means all telecommunication lines, stations, and works together with all necessary appurtenances thereto which are owned, installed, or controlled by Local Provider but shall specifically exclude facilities owned by another company or owned by another provider in which the local provider only leases line space.
“Gross receipts” means only those receipts collected from within the corporate boundaries of the city enacting the franchise and which are derived from the following: (A) Recurring local exchange service for business and residence which includes basic exchange service, touch tone, optional calling features and measured local calls; (B) recurring local exchange access line services for pay phone lines provided by a telecommunications local exchange service provider to all pay phone service providers; (C) local directory assistance revenue; (D) line status verification/busy interrupt revenue; (E) local operator assistance revenue; and (F) nonrecurring local exchange service revenue which shall include customer service for installation of lines, reconnection of service and charge for duplicate bills. All other revenues, including, but not limited to, revenues from extended area service, the sale or lease of unbundled network elements, nonregulated services, carrier and end user access, long distance, wireless telecommunications services, lines providing only data service without voice services processed by a telecommunications local exchange service provider, private line service arrangements, Internet, broadband and all other services not wholly local in nature are excluded from gross receipts. Gross receipts shall be reduced by bad debt expenses. Uncollectible and late charges shall not be included within gross receipts. If a telecommunications local exchange service provider offers additional services of a wholly local nature which if in existence on or before July 1, 2002, would have been included with the definition of gross receipts, such services shall be included from the date of the offering of such services in the city.
“Local exchange service” means local switched telecommunications service within any local exchange service area approved by the state corporation commission, regardless of the medium by which the local telecommunications service is provided. The term “local exchange service” shall not include wireless communication services.
“Telecommunications local exchange service provider” means a local exchange carrier as defined in subsection (h) of K.S.A. 66-1,187 , and amendments thereto, and a telecommunications carrier as defined in subsection (m) of K.S.A. 66-1,187 , and amendments thereto, which does, or in good faith intends to, provide local exchange service. The term “telecommunications local exchange service provider” does not include an interexchange carrier that does not provide local exchange service, competitive access provider that does not provide local exchange service or any wireless telecommunications local exchange service provider.
“Telecommunications services” means providing the means of transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or content of the information as sent and received. (Ord. 18947 § 2, 8-14-07.)
