It is hereby found, determined and declared that those elements of the system which provide for the collection, treatment, storage and disposal of stormwater are of benefit and provide services to all property within the incorporated City limits, including property not presently served by the stormwater elements of the system. The beneficiaries of the system include all real properties within the City which benefit by the provision, operation and improvement of the system. Such benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of adequate systems of collection, conveyance, detention, treatment and release of stormwater; the reduction of hazards to property and life resulting from stormwater runoff; improvements in general health and welfare through reduction of undesirable stormwater conditions; and improvements to the water quality in the stormwater and surface water system and its receiving waters. The utility, under the direction of the Director thereof, shall have the power to:
(a) Administer the acquisition, design, construction, maintenance and operation of the utility system, including capital improvements designated in the capital improvement program;
(b) Administer and enforce this chapter and all regulations and procedures adopted relating to the design, construction, maintenance, operation and alteration of the utility system including, but not limited to, the quantity, quality and/or velocity of the stormwater conveyed thereby;
(c) Review private systems as necessary to determine the compliance of such systems with this chapter;
(d) Advise the Mayor, City Council, City Manager and other City departments on matters relating to the utility;
(e) Prepare and revise a comprehensive drainage plan for adoption by the City Council periodically;
(f) Review plans and approve or deny, inspect and accept extensions and connections to the system;
(g) Enforce regulations to protect and maintain water quality within the system in compliance with water quality standards established by State, regional and/or Federal agencies as now adopted or hereafter amended;
(h) Analyze the cost of services and benefits provided, and the system and structure of fees, charges, fines and other revenues of the utility annually. (Ord. 19496 § 119, 12-21-10; Ord. 18477 § 26, 7-12-05; Ord. 17059 § 16, 12-17-96. Code 1995 § 146-379. Formerly 14.85.040.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; Utilities Department, TMC 2.20.110 .
