(a) Membership Generally. The Topeka Planning Commission shall consist of nine members who shall be appointed and have the terms of service as follows:
The Mayor shall solicit nominations from the City Council for the appointment of nine members to the Topeka Planning Commission. All nominations shall be approved by the City Council. At least 30 days prior to presenting a nomination to the Council, the Mayor shall notify Councilmembers of vacancies occurring on the Topeka Planning Commission, shall solicit nominations from the Council for filling such positions, and shall appoint members to the Topeka Planning Commission from those nominated by the Council. At least six but not more than seven persons shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the City. In addition, at least two, but not more than three, persons shall reside outside of the corporate limits but within the City’s three-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(b) Terms. Of the members of the Topeka Planning Commission first appointed, three members shall serve one-year terms, three members shall serve two-year terms and three members shall serve three-year terms. The Mayor with the consent of the City Council shall determine the terms of each appointed member. Members shall not serve beyond the end of their appointed terms. Upon expiration of a term the position shall remain vacant until a successor is appointed. Persons appointed to the Topeka Planning Commission may be reappointed for one additional three-year term. No person shall be permitted to serve more than two full consecutive terms as a Commission member. A period of at least three years shall lapse prior to a former member being eligible for reappointment.
(c) Qualifications of Members.
(1) No full- or part-time benefit-eligible employee of the City of Topeka or Shawnee County may be appointed as a member of the Topeka Planning Commission.
(2) Not more than three Planning Commissioners may be full- or part-time benefit-eligible employees of a Federal or State agency, or a separate political or taxing subdivision of the State, or full- or part-time benefit-eligible employees of agencies or organizations funded wholly or substantially by the City of Topeka or Shawnee County.
(3) At least six of the Planning Commissioners shall be appointed from the private sector. At least three of the six Commissioners appointed from the private sector shall be currently licensed or engaged in or have substantial past experience in the following fields or professions: licensed professional engineer, licensed landscape architect, licensed architect, certified planner, registered land surveyor, licensed contractor, developer or other experienced professional working in a field related to planning or land development.
(d) Compensation, Removal. Members appointed to the Topeka Planning Commission shall serve without compensation. Members may be removed without cause by a vote of two-thirds majority of the Council. Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the Council. Removal for cause shall include but not be limited to the following reasons: failure to attend four Planning Commission meetings in one calendar year or failure to attend three consecutive Commission meetings in one calendar year. In the case of death, incapacity, resignation or disqualification of any member of the Topeka Planning Commission, the Mayor, with consent of the City Council, shall appoint another person to serve for the unexpired term of the deceased, incapacitated, resigned or disqualified member.
At least 30 days prior to presenting a nomination to the Council, the Mayor shall notify Councilmembers of vacancies occurring on the Topeka Planning Commission. The Mayor shall solicit nominations from the City Council for filling such positions, and shall appoint members to the Topeka Planning Commission from those nominated by the City Council. All appointments shall be approved by the City Council. (Ord. 20206 § 81, 9-10-19; Ord. 18442 § 1, 5-24-05; Ord. 18382 § 39, 1-25-05; Ord. 18125 § 1, 11-18-03; Ord. 18094 § 2, 9-23-03; Ord. 17156 § 1, 8-12-97; Ord. 16414 § 2(33-19), 2-12-92. Code 1995 § 110-27. Formerly 2.65.020.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
