In considering and acting upon site plans, the Planning Director shall take into consideration the public health, safety, and welfare, the comfort and convenience of the public in general and the immediate neighborhood in particular. The following guidelines shall be considered in the evaluation of site plans:
(a) General Plan Conformity. The Planning Director shall review all site plans in accordance with the adopted comprehensive metropolitan plan and/or neighborhood plans for conformity with the adopted plans’ objectives, policies, and/or design guidelines.
(b) Circulation – Driveways, Sidewalks, Off-Street Parking, Loading, Curbs and Gutters. The Planning Director shall review all site plans for access and circulation features to provide mobility for people and goods to reach the site and circulate through it in a safe and efficient manner. All modes of transportation (pedestrian and automobile) must be considered in the site plan review.
(c) Landscaping and Buffers. All site plans shall provide for the landscaping and buffering of all building sites and parking areas. Review of landscaping and buffering is intended to protect and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by preventing soil erosion; providing shade; protecting from excessive noise, glare, and heat; conserving natural resources of air and water; enhancing the overall appearance of development sites; and facilitating a convenient, attractive, and harmonious streetscape and community. All site plans shall comply with adopted landscape ordinances.
(d) Lighting. All site plans shall provide adequate lighting so as to assure safety and security. Lighting installations shall not have an adverse impact on traffic safety or on the surrounding area. Light sources shall be shielded, and there shall be no spillover onto adjacent properties.
(e) Public Health and Safety. Applicable emergency service agencies shall review all site plans to determine adequacy of access and other aspects of public safety, including crime prevention through environmental design (CPTED) concepts such as natural surveillance, natural access control, and territorial reinforcement.
(f) Signs. The site plan shall conform to adopted sign ordinances and address the following considerations:
(1) Traffic Signals. No sign shall be maintained at any location which obstructs, impairs, obscures, interferes with the view of, or is confused with, any traffic control sign or device regardless of whether or not it meets other size, location, and setback requirements of adopted sign codes. Nor shall any sign interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic flow. A sign’s position, size, shape, content, color and illumination shall be considered when making such a determination.
(2) Sight Distance Triangles. No sign or any part of a sign other than a supporting pole or brace no greater than 18 inches in width or diameter shall be located lower than nine feet from grade within the area of any sight distance triangle.
(3) Landscaping. Signs proposed to be located within a landscaped area shall be located so as not to be obstructed from full-growth of landscaping. All sign base landscaping shall be of the nature and quality so as not to obstruct a motorist’s view of other vehicles moving within a parking lot or entering and exiting a driveway.
(4) Site Comprehension. Signs shall be designed and located to strengthen overall site comprehension through the use of comprehensive sign packages, where applicable, and the location of signs to clearly define points of access.
(g) Utilities. Ground mounted transformers and air conditioning units shall be screened if visible from the street or when adjacent to a structure on adjoining lot(s). All such units shall be located behind the front yard and side street yard setback lines.
(h) Floodway. Any development within floodways as identified on flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) shall comply with applicable City and County standards. General development guidelines include: anchorage to prevent flotation, construction with materials resistant to flood damage, floodproofing all utility and sanitary facilities, and designed so as to not increase surface elevation of the 100-year flood.
(i) Aviation. Any development located within prescribed aviation zones shall comply with applicable City ordinances and County standards. General development guidelines include the evaluation of height, dust, and lighting.
(j) Stormwater Drainage and Stream Buffers. Measures taken for erosion, pollutant, and sedimentation control shall conform to applicable City standards for stormwater management and stream buffers as required in TMC Titles 13 and 17 . A stormwater management plan, if required by Chapter 13.35 TMC, shall be submitted, reviewed, and approved concurrently with the site plan.
(k) Trash and Recycling Containers. Trash containers, trash compactors, and recycling containers shall be screened from public view on a minimum of three sides. Screening may include landscaping, walls or fences of design and construction compatible with the principal building, or a combination of walls, fences, and landscaping. If possible, given the constraints of the site and buildings, areas for trash and recycling containers shall be oriented toward the interior of the site and not be located in building setbacks. Trash and recycling walls and fences exceeding seven feet in height shall not be located in required front yard building setbacks and in side yard setbacks adjacent to a street. The screening requirements of this section shall not apply to containers for clothing donations or publicly accessible recycling containers. (Ord. 20062 § 41, 4-18-17.)
Cross References: Planning and Development Department, TMC 2.20.080 .
