(a) When a person is charged with an ordinance traffic infraction or an ordinance cigarette or tobacco infraction, the notice to appear shall provide a place where the person may make a written entry of appearance, waive the right to a trial and plead guilty or no contest. The notice to appear shall provide a space in which the law enforcement officer, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, shall enter the appropriate fine specified in the fine schedule established by the Municipal Judge in accordance with TMC 2.40.330 and amendments thereto, in the case of a traffic infraction, or a fine of $25.00, in the case of an ordinance cigarette or tobacco infraction. Either the notice to appear or a separate form provided to the person by the law enforcement officer shall provide an explanation: (1) of the person’s right to appear and right to trial and the person’s right to pay the appropriate fine prior to the appearance date; (2) that failure to either pay such fine or appear at the specified time may result in issuance of a warrant for the person’s arrest; and (3) in the case of a traffic infraction, that failure to either pay such fine or appear at the specified time may result in the suspension of the person’s driver’s license. The law enforcement officer shall provide the person with the telephone number and address of the Municipal Court to which the written entry of appearance, waiver of trial, plea of guilty or no contest and payment of fine shall be mailed.
(b) In lieu of the law enforcement officer entering the appropriate fine for an ordinance traffic infraction, the officer may direct the person charged with an ordinance traffic infraction to contact the clerk of the Municipal Court to determine the applicable fine or provide the person with a copy of the fine schedule established by the Municipal Judge in accordance with K.S.A. 12-4305 and amendments thereto.
(c) When a person is charged with an ordinance cigarette or tobacco infraction, the judge may require the juvenile to appear in court with a parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 20206 § 9, 9-10-19; Ord. 17666 § 30, 3-27-01. Code 1995 § 50-65. Formerly 2.110.280.)
Cross References: Police Department, TMC 2.20.090 .
State Law References: Similar State statute, K.S.A. 12-4214 .
