The Commission shall be comprised of seven members. The Commission shall be appointed as follows:
(a) One member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City with the approval of the City Council. Such member shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and shall be the chairperson of the Commission;
(b) Six members shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City with the approval of the City Council for terms of four years. Members shall not serve beyond the end of their appointed terms. Upon expiration of a term the position shall remain vacant until a successor is appointed. Of the members appointed under this provision, one shall be a representative of the Secretary of Administration of the State of Kansas, one shall be a representative of the Governing Body of Shawnee County, and one shall be a representative of the Governing Body of Unified School District No. 501. The member who is the representative of the Secretary of Administration shall be appointed from three nominations submitted by the Secretary of Administration. The member who is the representative of the Governing Body of Shawnee County shall be appointed from three nominations submitted by the Governing Body of Shawnee County. The member who is the representative of Unified School District No. 501 shall be appointed from three nominations submitted by the Governing Body of Unified School District No. 501. The four members appointed directly by the Mayor shall be residents of the City. In the case of the death, incapacity, resignation or disqualification of any member of the Commission, the Mayor of the City shall appoint with the approval of the City Council a new member for the unexpired term of the deceased, incapacitated, resigned or disqualified member in accordance with the provisions of this section. The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 20206 § 82, 9-10-19; Ord. 19370 § 10, 3-23-10. Code 1995 § 26-67. Formerly 2.70.020.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
