The City Council hereby finds that:
(a) The City assumes the responsibility for and is committed to providing public trafficway at levels necessary to cure any existing deficiencies in already developed areas.
(b) Trafficway impact fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall not be used to cure existing deficiencies in public trafficways.
(c) New residential and nonresidential development imposes increased and excessive demands upon the City’s public trafficways.
(d) Planning, economic and demographic studies project that new development will continue and will place ever-increasing demands on the City to provide public trafficways to serve the new development.
(e) The development potential and property values of properties in the designated trafficway benefit areas are strongly influenced by City policy as expressed in the comprehensive plan and as implemented by the City zoning ordinance and map.
(f) To the extent that new development in designated trafficway benefit areas places demands upon the public trafficways, those demands should be satisfied by creating a partnership between the development community and the City to provide trafficways funded by the development creating the demands.
(g) Further, the City Council recognizes the benefits of new development and wishes to encourage the orderly growth and harmonious development of the City. Consequently, the City Council recognizes the benefits of partnering with the development community to improve and pay for trafficway infrastructure serving the new development.
(h) The City Council, after careful consideration, and the experience of other similarly situated cities, recognizes that new development requires and places demands on trafficway infrastructure. The City Council finds that it is fair and equitable for new development to finance through trafficway impact fees, major trafficways that serve designated trafficway benefit areas.
(i) The City Council, after careful consideration and the experience of other similarly situated cities, finds that the imposition of trafficway impact fees to finance specified major public trafficways in designated trafficway benefit areas, the demand for which is created by new development, is in the best interests of the general welfare of the City and its residents, is equitable, and does not impose an unfair burden on new development. (Ord. 18273 § 3, 6-22-04. Code 1995 § 130-762.)
