(a) Types of Insurance. During the term of this Agreement, Grantee shall obtain and maintain insurance coverage at its sole expense, with financially reputable insurers that are licensed to do business in the State of Kansas. Grantee shall provide not less than the following insurance:
(1) Workers’ compensation as provided for under any worker’s compensation or similar law in the jurisdiction where any work is performed with an employers’ liability limit equal to the amount required by law.
(2) Commercial general liability, including coverage for contractual liability and products completed operations liability on an occurrence basis and not a claims made basis, with a limit of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) combined single limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage liability with a two million dollar ($2,000,000) general aggregate limit. The Grantee may meet the policy limit requirements above in combination with commercial general liability policies and umbrella liability policies. The City shall be included as an additional insured with respect to liability arising from Grantee’s operations under this Franchise agreement.
(b) Self-Insured. As an alternative to the requirements of subsection (a), Grantee may demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that it is self-insured and as such Grantee has the ability to provide coverage in an amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000) in aggregate, to protect the City from and against all claims by any person whatsoever for loss or damage from personal injury, bodily injury, death or property damage occasioned by Grantee, or alleged to so have been caused or occurred.
(c) Certificate of Insurance. Grantee shall, as a material condition of this Agreement, prior to the commencement of any work and prior to any renewal thereof, deliver to the City a certificate of insurance or evidence of self-insurance, satisfactory in form and content to the City Attorney, evidencing that the above insurance is in force and will not be cancelled or materially changed with respect to areas and entities covered without first giving the City thirty (30) days prior written notice. Grantee shall make available to the City on request the policy declarations page and a certified copy of the policy in effect, so that limitations and exclusions can be evaluated for appropriateness of overall coverage.
(d) Performance Bond. Grantee shall, as a material condition of this Agreement, prior to the commencement of any work and prior to any renewal thereof, deliver to the City a performance bond in the amount of $50,000, payable to the City to ensure the appropriate and timely performance in the construction and maintenance of Facilities located in the PROW. The required performance bond must be with good and sufficient sureties, issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the State of Kansas, and satisfactory to the City Attorney in form and substance. (Ord. 20044 § 9, 12-20-16.)
