(a) Information Required. The information provided to the Director at the time of registration, except for persons holding a valid franchise with the City, shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Each registrant’s name, Kansas One-Call registration certificate number, address, email address if applicable, telephone number(s), and facsimile number(s).
(2) The name, address, email address if applicable, telephone number(s), and facsimile number(s) of a local representative. The local representative shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time of registration.
(3) A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
(i) Public liability insurance which is acceptable to the City Attorney’s office in an amount not less than $500,000;
(ii) Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising out of the: (A) use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees, and (B) placement and use of equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground equipment, and collapse of property;
(iii) Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be provided as to all such coverages;
(iv) Requiring that the City be notified 30 days in advance of cancellation of the policy; and
(v) Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability coverage, workers compensation, and umbrella coverage established by the City in amounts sufficient to protect the City and carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
(4) A copy of the person’s certificate of authority from the Kansas Corporation Commission or other applicable State or Federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate from said Commission or other state or Federal agency.
(5) Such other information as the City may require.
(b) Notice of Changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information listed above current at all times by providing to the Director information as to changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge of any change. (Ord. 17587 § 5-2, 10-24-00. Code 1995 § 130-677.)
Cross References: City Attorney, TMC 2.20.070 ; Public Works Department, TMC 2.20.100 .
