“Tap/tasting room” means an area included on site that is accessory to micro-alcohol production to allow customers to taste samples of products manufactured on site and purchase related items.
“Temporary use” means a use of land, buildings or structures not intended to be of permanent duration.
“Theater” means a structure used for dramatic, operatic, motion pictures, or other performance, for admission to which entrance money is received and no audience participation or meal service allowed.
“Tract” means an area or parcel of land other than a lot described and recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Shawnee County as a single parcel of land under individual ownership.
“Traffic impact analysis (TIA)” means a specialized study of the impact a development will have on the surrounding transportation system. It is specifically concerned with the generation, distribution, and assignment of traffic to and from a proposed development. The purpose of a TIA is to determine what impact that traffic will have on the existing and proposed roadway network, and what impact the existing and projected traffic on the roadway system will have on the proposed development. It will provide a credible basis for estimating roadway and on-site improvement requirements attributable to a particular project, and assess the compatibility of local transportation plans. The specific content of a TIA may vary depending upon the site, prevailing conditions, and safety considerations as expressed by reviewing staff during the preapplication conference, and shall conform to the recommended practice methods of the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
“Transient guest” means a person who occupies a short-term residential rental for not more than 28 consecutive days.
“Transmission tower” means a structure principally intended to support a source of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation (NIER) and accessory equipment related to telecommunications, other than the following uses which are exempt from this division:
(1) Portable, handheld and vehicular transmissions;
(2) Industrial, scientific and medical equipment operating at frequencies designated for that purpose by the FCC;
(3) A source of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation with an effective radiated power of seven watts or less;
(4) A sole-source emitter with an average output of one kilowatt or less if used for amateur purposes;
(5) Marketed consumer products, such as microwave ovens, citizens band radios, and remote control toys; and
(6) Goods in storage or shipment or on display for sale, provided the goods are not operated, except for occasional testing or demonstration.
“Truck stop” means a facility that provides services to the trucking industry, including but not limited to the following: dispensing of fuel, repair shops for large trucks, automated washes, restaurants, motels, overnight sleeping quarters, parking areas for large trucks, resting areas for trucks and drivers, all as part of a primary use. (Ord. 20283 § 6, 3-2-21.)
