“Garage” means a building or structure, or part thereof, used, or intended to be used, for the parking and storage of vehicles.
“Garage, attached” means a private garage which has a roof or wall, or major portion of a roof or wall, in common with a dwelling. Where the garage is attached to a dwelling in this manner, it shall be subject to all yard requirements of the main building.
“Garage, private” means an accessory building designed or used for the storage of motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is an accessory use.
“Garage, public” means a building, or portion thereof, other than a private customer and employee garage or private residential garage, used primarily for the parking and storage of vehicles and available to the general public.
“Garden, community” means an area of land managed and maintained by an individual or group of individuals for growing and harvesting, farming, community gardening, or any other use, which contributes to the production of agricultural, floricultural, or horticultural products for beautifica-tion, education, recreation, consumption, community or personal use, sale, or donation. This definition includes community gardens, private gardens, and community supported agriculture (CSA) uses under the blanket term “community garden.”
“Garden, community (type I)” means a community garden no greater than two acres of cultivated area which permits sales of a temporary nature.
“Garden, community (type II)” means a community garden with permanent produce sales structures or larger accessory structures than permitted in type I gardens.
“Golf course” means a tract of land for playing golf, improved with tees, greens, fairways, hazards, and which may include drives, vehicle parking and shelters.
“Governing Body” means the Mayor and City Council of Topeka, Kansas.
Grade.
(1) For buildings having walls adjoining one street, the grade is the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the building wall adjoining the street.
(2) For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the grade is the average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of the building walls adjoining the streets.
(3) For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the grade is the average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior building walls. Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street. Where no sidewalk exists the grade shall be established by the City Engineer.
“Ground floor” means the first floor of a building other than a cellar or basement.
“Ground floor area” means the square foot area of a building within the largest outside dimensions, inclusive of the width of the outside walls but exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, exterior stairways, and secondary stairways.
“Group home” means a dwelling occupied by not more than 10 persons, including eight or fewer persons with a disability who need not be related by blood or marriage and not to exceed two staff residents who need not be related by blood or marriage to each other or to the residents of the home, which dwelling is licensed by a regulatory agency of this state. “Group home” does not include “group residence, general” or “group residence, limited.”
“Group residence, general” means a residential dwelling that is occupied by nine to 15 persons, including more than eight persons each with a disability, none of whom needs to be related by blood or marriage, that is not a “group home” as defined herein.
“Group residence, limited” means a residential dwelling that is occupied by not more than 10 persons, including a maximum of eight persons each with a disability and a maximum of two staff residents, none of whom needs to be related by blood or marriage, that is not a “group home” as defined herein. (Ord. 19921 § 6, 9-23-14.)
