Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other regulations, rates and charges established by the Department.
(a) Permits shall contain the following:
(1) A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance date, expiration date and effective date as set forth in TMC 13.20.470 .
(2) A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable without prior notification to the City in accordance with TMC 13.20.480 and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit.
(3) Effluent limits, including BMPs, based on applicable pretreatment standards.
(4) Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample type based on Federal, State, and local law.
(5) A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
(6) Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the Utilities Director to be necessary.
(b) Permits may contain, but are not limited to, the following conditions:
(1) Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
(2) Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology, pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment works;
(3) Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control plans or other special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine discharges;
(4) Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
(5) The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
(6) Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
(7) A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable Federal and State pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the term of the individual wastewater discharge permit or the general permit; and
(8) Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Utilities Director to ensure compliance with this chapter and State and Federal laws, rules, and regulations.
(c) The Utilities Director may change the conditions of a wastewater discharge permit from time to time as laws and regulations enacted by the State or Federal government may require. Whenever the discharge from any user is causing excessive operation or maintenance problems in the sewage collection system or the wastewater treatment plant, the Utilities Director may change the conditions of that wastewater discharge permit to alleviate the problem. The Utilities Director may allow a user reasonable time to comply with any Division-required changes in the permit; provided, that such changes are not in conflict with changes required by the State or Federal government. The time allowed for such compliance would be consistent with time limitations imposed upon the City by regulatory agencies.
(d) All industrial users shall promptly notify the Division of Water Pollution Control in advance of any substantial change. A substantial change shall consist of 10 percent in wastewater volume or character of pollutants in the discharge, including the listed characteristic hazardous wastes for which the industrial user has submitted notification pursuant to 40 CFR Section 403.12(p) . A change in the wastewater strength shall immediately effect recalculation of the wastewater service charges and fees.
(e) The conditions in wastewater discharge permits shall be enforced by the Utilities Director in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and any regulations established by the Division of Water Pollution Control. Any discharger who exceeds the conditions of the permit will be subject to the enforcement provisions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 20089 § 67, 10-17-17.)
