(a) Contents of Notice. Whenever the Utilities Director finds that any user has violated or is violating any provisions set forth in Chapters 13.20 , 13.25 , 13.30 and 13.35 TMC, the Utilities Director may, in accordance with the City’s enforcement response plan, serve notice upon such user which contains the following:
(1) The street address or a legal description sufficient for identification of the premises at which the violation is occurring.
(2) A clear statement of violation and code section in violation.
(3) If applicable, notice may contain a statement of the corrective action required to be taken as determined by the Utilities Director.
(b) Service of Notice. The notice and any amended or supplemental notice shall be served upon the owner of record, and one copy thereof shall be served on each of the following, if applicable, if known or disclosed from official public records: (1) the tenant in possession or (2) the contractor or other individual named in the permit upon which work is being done on the premises. The failure of the Utilities Director to serve any person required herein to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as to any other person duly served or relieve any such person from any duty or obligation imposed by the provisions of this section.
(c) Method of Service. Service of the notice shall be made upon all persons entitled either personally or by mailing a copy of such notice by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each such person at their address as it appears on the Register of Deeds, Shawnee County records or at the address listed in the permit or under which the work is being done. If the location of such person is unknown or if no address of such person so appears after diligent effort, then copies of such notice shall be mailed by first class mail to the individual at the address of the real property at which the violation is occurring, and a copy of such notice shall be published once in the official City paper. The failure of any such person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified mail in the manner herein provided shall be effective on the date of receipt. (Ord. 20089 § 38, 10-17-17.)
