“Abandonment” means the relinquishment of property, or a cessation of the use of the property, for a period of one year (365 calendar days) or longer by the owner with the intention neither of transferring rights to the property to another owner nor of resuming the use of the property.
“Abutting” means having property or district lines in common; e.g., two lots are abutting if they have at least one property line in common.
“Accessory building coverage ratio” means the cumulative area for the footprints of all accessory buildings compared to the footprint of the principal building.
“Accessory building or use” means a building or use which: (1) is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use; (2) is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building or principal use served; (3) contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of the principal building or principal use; and (4) is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or principal use.
“Accessory dwelling unit” or ADU means a single dwelling unit that is incidental to, subordinate to, and located on the same zoning lot as the principal building. The ADU may either be integrated into or added on to the principal dwelling or established as a detached accessory dwelling building.
“Addition” means any construction which increases the size of a building such as a porch, attached garage or carport or a new room or wing.
“Adjacent” means nearby, but not necessarily touching.
“Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building used for presenting filmed material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” (as defined herein) for observation by patrons therein.
“Agriculture” means land devoted to the production of plants, animals, fish, or horticultural products, including but not limited to: forages, grains and feed crops; dairy animals and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; beef, cattle, sheep, swine and horses; aquaculture; trees and forest products; fruits, nuts and berries; vegetables; or nursery, floral, ornamental and greenhouse products. Land devoted to agricultural use shall not include those lands which are used for recreational purposes; suburban residential acreages, rural homesites or farm homesites and yard plots whose primary function is for residential or recreational purposes even though such properties may produce or maintain some of those plants or animals listed in the foregoing definition.
“Alley” means a public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
“Alteration” means any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows, or any enlargement to or diminution of a building or structure, whether horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or structure from one location to another.
“Animal care and services, type I” means a facility where medical and/or pet grooming services are provided within an enclosed building to common household pets.
“Animal care and services, type II” means a facility where the following services are provided for animals: (1) medical services within an enclosed building; (2) pet day care; and (3) indoor kenneling for overnight stays.
“Antenna” means an exterior apparatus designed for transmitting or receiving television, AM/FM radio, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone or similar forms of electronic communication.
“Apartment hotel” means a building designed for or containing both apartments or suites of rooms, which caters primarily to tenants with flexible occupancy duration needs. Incidental businesses may be conducted only as a service for persons residing therein, provided there is no entrance to such place(s) of business except from the interior of the building.
Area. See “tract.”
“Artisan manufacturing” means the production and assembly of finished products or component parts, typically by hand, and including design, processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of finished products. Typical artisan manufacturing trades include, but are not limited to: food and bakery products; nonalcoholic beverages; printmaking; leather products; jewelry and clothing/apparel; metal work; woodwork; furniture; and glass or ceramic production. Artisan manufacturing differs from other forms of manufacturing as it is substantially limited in the scale of production and is controlled in a manner such that it shall not cause noise, odor, or detectable vibration onto any neighboring property.
“Assisted living facility” means a facility caring for six or more individuals unrelated to the administrator, operator or owner who, by choice or due to functional impairment, may need personal care and/or supervised nursing care to compensate for activities of daily living limitations. The facility includes individual living units or apartments for residents and provides or coordinates a range of services including personal care or supervised nursing care on a 24-hour-a-day basis for the support of resident independence. Skilled nursing services are typically provided on an intermittent or limited term basis, or if limited in scope, on a regular basis.
“Automobile or vehicle car wash” means a facility for the washing of motor vehicles.
“Automobile wrecking and/or salvage yard” means an area not enclosed within a building which is maintained, operated, or used for the storing, keeping, buying, or selling of junk as defined in Chapter 5.135 TMC where motor vehicles, heavy appliances, or machinery not in operable condition is disassembled, dismantled, junked, stored, wrecked, or parts thereof are bought and/or sold.
Automotive Service Station.
“Type 1” means a facility which dispenses automotive fuels and oil together with the retail sales of incidental merchandise such as packaged beer, nonalcoholic beverages, ice, candy, cigarettes, snacks and convenience packaged foods. (Also known as “convenience stores with gas pumps.”)
“Type 2” means a facility which dispenses automotive fuels and oil together with replacement automotive parts such as fan belts, hoses, sparkplugs, tires and tubes, ignition parts, batteries, shock absorbers, fuses, etc., including incidental merchandise as defined above. Minor automotive services shall be permitted, which includes minor repair and replacement.
(i) Lubrication.
(ii) Tire repair.
(iii) Brake repair and wheel balancing.
(iv) Muffler and exhaust system repair.
(v) Shock absorber replacement.
(vi) Engine adjustment (tune-up).
(vii) Replacement of pumps, cooling systems, generators, alternators, wires, starters, air conditioners, bearings, and other similar devices.
(viii) Radio repair.
(ix) Glass replacement.
(x) And other similar repair and replacement services normally deemed to be emergency and convenience services; however, the same shall not include drive train units such as the engine, transmission or drive components.
“Type 3” means a facility which may include those uses defined in types 1 and 2, and specifically includes repair, rebuilding and replacement of drive train units of automobiles, pickup trucks, street vans, motorcycles and racing vehicles.
“Awning” means a roof-like cover that projects from the wall of a building to shield a doorway, walkway, or window from inclement weather or the sun. Awnings are often made of fabric or flexible material supported by a rigid frame and may be retracted into the face of the building. (Ord. 20500 § 1, 7-30-24.)
