(a) The maintenance and repair of a building service line and its connection with the City sewer main is the responsibility of the owner of the property it serves. It is therefore the responsibility of the property owner to make repairs if there is a failure in the building service line or the wye connection to the City sewer main and the responsibility of the City if there is a failure in the City sewer main. The first indication of sewer failure or potential failure may vary. It is the intention of the Water Pollution Control Division to cooperate with the individual property owners and the plumbers in the resolution of these sanitary failures within the following guidelines.
(b) Sewer Failure – Excavation.
(1) Settlement of Ground Surface. In some cases failure of a sewer line is first indicated by settlement of the ground surface near a failure. This can happen before there is any apparent malfunction in either the building service line or the City sewer main. When this occurs over or near the connection of the building service line to the City sewer main, it is not always possible to determine before excavation whether the failure is in the building service line, the City sewer main, or both. If there is no indication at this time that the building service line has failed, the Water Pollution Control Division will make an attempt to determine the problem by inspection of the City sewer main. If the problem is with the City sewer main, or if the City is unable to inspect the City sewer, the Division will make the initial excavation to determine the source of the problem.
(2) Sewer Stoppage/Backup. If the backup of sewage is the first indication of failure, the Water Pollution Control Division will assist by investigating to determine if there is a stoppage in the City sewer main.
(i) If the City sewer main has deteriorated to the point where it appears to be the source of the problem or if the City sewer main contains a stoppage that cannot be removed by conventional methods, then the Water Pollution Control Division will make the initial excavation to determine the extent of the failure.
(ii) If the City sewer main is not obstructed, but is open and flowing, and the private sewer line has failed, it then becomes the responsibility of the property owner to make the necessary repairs within seven days. In this case, the Water Pollution Control Division will not make the initial excavation.
(3) Excavation Requirement. It shall be the total responsibility of the party making the excavation to make it of adequate size for Water Pollution Control Division personnel to work safely for inspection of the sewer and/or repairing of the wye connection.
(c) Sewer Repairs.
(1) City Sewer Is Broken. If the City sewer main is broken or in such poor condition that it is impractical to make a new wye connection (except where the City sewer main was broken during excavation by others), then the Water Pollution Control Division will provide the following services:
(i) Make the additional excavation required to remove the damaged pipe and replace the broken section(s) of pipe.
(ii) Install a new wye connection thereto and pour a concrete base under the City sewer or provide adequate support.
(iii) If the material removed from the hole is unacceptable for backfilling, the Water Pollution Control Division will furnish new backfill material.
(iv) Haul off any excess dirt or other material unacceptable for backfill.
(v) Remove any debris left on City property.
(vi) Replace the surfacing.
(vii) If the initial excavation was made by the property owner(s), the Water Pollution Control Division may share in the cost, depending upon the reason for the initial excavation.
(2) Broken Wye. If the wye connection itself is broken at the City sewer main, the private sewer line has also failed and the City sewer is in good condition, the Water Pollution Control Division will also haul off any excess dirt or other material unacceptable for backfill and remove any debris left on City property. The Water Pollution Control Division may participate in the cost of additional items of work where the cost is excessive due to surfacing or deep sewers. It is the responsibility of the property owner(s) to hire a plumber to install the private sewer line(s), replace the backfill material and compact it in accordance with Engineering Department standards.
(3) City Sewer Intact.
(i) If the City sewer main and the wye connection itself are intact and only the private sewer line(s) is damaged, the Water Pollution Control Division has no responsibility and therefore will not assist in or pay for any portion of the repair work. In such cases, the Utilities Director or designee shall direct the property owner, from which the building service line extends, to repair the service line within seven days.
(ii) The property owner may, through written request, authorize the Water Pollution Control Division to cause the private sewer line to be repaired and reimburse the Water Pollution Control Division for any cost and expenses incurred therewith.
(iii) The Water Pollution Control Division shall exercise diligence, including sending a certified letter, return receipt requested, in attempting to locate and direct the property owner to repair the service line. However, if said property owner cannot be located or if said property owner fails to secure the service of a contractor to repair the private sewer service line within 72 hours of having received notice from the Utilities Director, then the Water Pollution Control Division may cause the private sewer line, situated in the public right-of-way, to be repaired and excavation backfilled. The said property owner shall be responsible for any cost and expenses incurred in connection with said repair.
(iv) The Water Pollution Control Division shall submit a bill to the owner of any property for which it caused a private sewer line to be repaired. In the event the owner of any property for which the Water Pollution Control Division has caused replacement or repair of a private sewer service line shall neglect, fail or refuse to pay the cost or expenses incurred by the Water Pollution Control Division, such charges shall constitute a lien upon the real estate from which the private sewer line extends, and shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk, to be placed on the tax roll for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as other taxes are by law collectable.
(v) The officials of the Utilities Department shall be authorized to inspect any sewer repair work done in public right-of-way or easement pursuant to the provisions of this section. (Ord. 20089 § 45, 10-17-17.)
Cross References: City Clerk, TMC 2.20.010 .
