The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
“Baseline consumption” means an amount that is 1.25 times the average of the consumer’s monthly water bills for the months of the previous November, December, January and February.
“Consumer” means any person using water for any purpose from the City’s water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
“Waste of water” means and includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other surface drain.
(2) The use of water for any purpose, including landscape irrigation, which consumes or for which is applied substantial amounts of excess water beyond the reasonable amount required by the use, whether such excess water remains on the site, evaporates, percolates underground, goes into the sewer system, or is allowed to run into the gutter or street. Every water consumer is deemed to have under his control at all times the water lines and facilities, other than water utility facilities, through which water is being supplied and used to his premises, and to know the manner and extent of his water use and excess runoff.
(3) The excessive use, loss or escape of water through breaks, leaks or malfunctions in the water consumer’s plumbing for any period of time after such escape of water should reasonably have been discovered and corrected. It shall be presumed that a period of 48 hours after the water user discovers such break, leak or malfunction or receives notice from the City of such condition, whichever occurs first, is a reasonable time within which to correct such condition.
(4) Washing sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis courts, patios or other paved areas except to alleviate immediate fire hazards.
“Water” means water available to the City for treatment by virtue of its water rights or any treated water introduced by the City into its water distribution system. (Code 1981 § 44-158. Code 1995 § 146-161.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
