(a) There is hereby created in the City a special fund to be known as the historic preservation fund. Moneys from the general fund, community block grant funds, transient guest tax funds, or funds from any other source legally available for such purpose shall be credited to this fund.
(b) Moneys shall be expended only on projects that facilitate tourism resulting from the preservation and promotion of the City’s historical assets, including but not limited to:
(1) Restoring and preserving sites listed on a local, State or national register of historic sites that are not private or primarily commercial in nature unless open or intended to be open to the public on a regularly scheduled basis.
(2) Marketing the City’s historical assets.
(3) Providing financial commitments associated with securing grant funding from government or private sources.
Disbursement of funds for projects identified in subsections (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section shall not exceed 15 percent of the total amount of historic preservation funds allocated for each calendar year.
(c) The Historic Tourism Committee shall:
(1) Make recommendations to the Transient Guest Tax Committee which shall determine whether to approve disbursement of transient guest tax funds for projects identified in subsection (b) of this section.
(2) Make recommendations to the City Manager who shall determine whether to approve disbursement of funds, other than transient guest tax funds, credited to the historic preservation fund for projects identified in subsection (b) of this section.
(3) Establish bylaws and guidelines for grant applications, subject to review and approval by the transient guest tax committee.
(d) The Historic Tourism Committee shall consist of the following members:
(1) All members of the Landmarks Commission;
(2) One member of the Topeka tourism alliance selected by the transient guest tax committee;
(3) One member of the Topeka and Shawnee County area “Freedom’s Frontier” heritage tourism alliance selected by the transient guest tax committee;
(4) The president or designee of the Topeka Lodging Association;
(5) The chief executive officer or designee of Visit Topeka, Inc.
The individuals selected by the Transient Guest Tax Committee shall serve for as long as each is a member of the respective organization identified in this subsection or until removed by the transient guest tax committee. The chairperson of the Landmarks Commission shall chair the Historic Tourism Committee which shall meet at the call of the chairperson. (Ord. 19763 § 1, 9-25-12.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC; boards, commissions and committees, TMC 2.205.010 et seq.; Landmarks Commission, Chapter 2.230 TMC; historic preservation, Chapter 18.255 TMC.
