All construction contracts and purchases by the metropolitan transit authority of materials, supplies, services or equipment of the cost of which can reasonably be expected to exceed $10,000.00 shall be let to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder after advertising for sealed proposals in the official city paper. All contracts for the sale of property of the value of more than $2,500.00 or for any concession in or lease of property of the authority for a term of more than one year shall be awarded to the highest responsive and responsible bidder after advertising for bids.
Formal advertising and bidding procedures will not be required in the following situations:
(1) The item is available only from a single source; or
(2) Public exigency or emergency when the urgency for the requirement will not permit a delay incident to competitive solicitation; or
(3) Urban mass transportation administration authorizes noncompetitive negotiation; or
(4) After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate.
All contracts involving less than $10,000.00 shall be let by competitive bidding whenever possible and in any event in a manner calculated to ensure the best interest of the public.
In determining the responsibility of any bidder, the board may take into account past records of dealings with the bidder, experience, adequacy of equipment, ability to complete performance within the time set, and other factors besides financial responsibility, but in no case shall any such contract be awarded to any other than the highest bidder (in case of sale, concession or lease) or the lowest bidder (in case of purchase or expenditure) unless authorized or approved by a vote of at least four members of the board, and unless such action is accompanied by a statement in writing setting forth the reasons for not awarding the contract to the highest or lowest bidder, as the case may be, which statement shall be kept on file in the principal office of the authority and open to public inspection.
Contracts shall not be split into parts involving expenditure of less than $10,000.00 for the purpose of avoiding the provisions of this section, and all such split contracts shall be void. If any collusion occurs among bidders or prospective bidders in restraint of freedom of competition, by agreement to bid a fixed amount or to refrain from bidding, or otherwise, the bids of such bidders shall be void. Each bidder shall accompany his or her bid with a sworn statement that he or she has not been a party to any such agreement.
The board shall have the right to reject all bids and to readvertise for bids. If after such readvertisement no responsible and satisfactory bid, within the terms of the advertisement, shall be received, the board may award such contract without competitive bidding, providing that it shall not be less advantageous to the authority than any valid bid received pursuant to advertisement. (C.O. 64 § 2, 8-25-84.)
State Law References: K.S.A. 12-2828 .
