There is created and established a commission to be known as the “Topeka Landmarks Commission.”
(a) Scope of Duties. The Topeka Landmarks Commission shall advise the City Council on historic assets and safeguard the architectural and cultural heritage of the community through the preservation of local historic landmarks and local historic districts. The Topeka Landmarks Commission may carry out these duties through the identification, documentation and designation of local historic landmarks; development and implementation of a historic preservation plan; administration of ordinances governing the designation, alteration and removal of local historic landmarks; assistance with educational and incentive programs, economic development and tourism, and coordination of public and private historic preservation activities.
(b) Members. The Topeka Landmarks Commission shall be composed of nine members. The nine members shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council and will serve without compensation. The Topeka Landmarks Commission membership shall be comprised of people who have a demonstrated interest in historic preservation through their community and/or professional involvements. The members of the Commission shall be drawn from such backgrounds as architecture, history, landscape architecture, architectural history, planning, archaeology, urban design, neighborhood and community development, geography, real estate, law, finance, building trades or related areas. A minimum of four members shall be preservation-related professionals.
(c) Terms. The terms shall be for a three-year period commencing on January 1st and terminating on December 31st. No member shall serve beyond the end of his or her appointed term. Upon expiration of a term, the position shall remain vacant until a successor is appointed.
(d) Officers. The Topeka Landmarks Commission shall elect a chairperson and one vice-chairperson from its members.
(e) Meetings. The Topeka Landmarks Commission shall meet at least once each month, with additional meetings upon call by the chairperson or upon petition of a majority of the members. All meetings shall be open to the public and notification shall be provided in the official newspaper, and to those who request notification. Unless otherwise required herein, five members present shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(f) Ex Officio Members. The following may serve on the Topeka Landmarks Commission as ex officio members:
(1) The Director or designee of the Development Services Office;
(2) The Director or designee of the City Planning Department.
(g) Jurisdiction. The chapter shall apply to the City of Topeka.
(h) Committees and Subcommittees. The Topeka Landmarks Commission may establish through its bylaws committees, including a design review committee, as deemed necessary or convenient to carry out the various functions and duties of the Commission. Such committees or subcommittees may include any person appointed by the chairperson and may meet upon such schedule and for such purposes as established by the Commission.
(i) Staff of the Topeka Landmarks Commission. The Topeka Landmarks Commission shall receive such staff support as directed by the City administration. (Ord. 20206 § 80, 9-10-19; Ord. 19901 § 1, 5-6-14. Formerly 2.60.010.)
Cross References: City Council – Mayor, Chapter 2.15 TMC.
