(a) Major Traffic Thoroughfares. Major traffic thoroughfares in subdivisions shall conform as nearly as possible to the master plan as adopted by the Planning Commission.
(b) Minor Streets. In residential areas of subdivisions all streets shall be of a design which will discourage through or nonlocal traffic.
(c) Culs-de-sac. Culs-de-sac in subdivisions shall normally be no longer than 500 feet, including a turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end.
(d) Right Angle Intersections. Under normal conditions, streets in subdivisions shall be laid out to intersect, as nearly as possible, at right angles. Where topography or other conditions justify a variation from the right angle intersection, the minimum angle shall be 60 degrees.
(e) Streets Adjacent to a Railroad Right-of-Way, Limited Access Freeway or Other Major Thoroughfares. A marginal access street or frontage road in a subdivision shall be provided parallel and adjacent to the boundary of rights-of-way of railroads, limited access freeways and major traffic thoroughfares; however, a street may be provided at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between such street and such rights-of-way. Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to future grade separation or for lot depths.
(f) Half-Streets. Dedication of half-streets will not be approved except where such streets are essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in conformity with other requirements of this division.
(g) Alleys. Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts, except that this requirement may be waived where other definite and assured provisions are made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided wherever possible, but if unavoidable, such dead-end alleys may be approved if adequate turnaround facilities are provided at the closed end. (Code 1981 § 41-93. Code 1995 § 134-135.)
Cross References: Planning Commission, Chapter 2.225 TMC.
