(a) Definitions. The following words and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
“Announced religious event” means a religious event regarding which the public has been provided notice of the beginning time and of the duration or ending time of such event by the conspicuous posting of a sign on the property where the event is to be held or by announcement in a newspaper regularly printed on at least a weekly basis within the City.
“Focused picketing” means standing or sitting or walking in a repeated manner past or around a house of worship, by one or more persons while carrying a banner, placard, or sign.
“House of worship” means any church, synagogue, mosque, or other structure that is regularly used for the exercise of religious beliefs.
“Religious event” means any scheduled worship service, wedding, funeral rite, memorial service for the dead, or other observance of a religious sacrament, ritual, ceremony or celebration that takes place at a house of worship or on the property where a house of worship is situated.
(b) Unlawful Acts. It is unlawful for any person to engage in focused picketing, during the time period from one-half hour prior to the beginning time of an announced religious event until one-half hour after the ending time of the event, on public property at any of the following locations:
(1) On the sidewalk adjoining the property on which a house of worship is situated; or
(2) In the street or roadway adjoining or adjacent to the property on which a house of worship is situated; or
(3) On the public area between the house of worship and an adjoining or adjacent street or roadway, including but not limited to the curb, drainage, or area between the street and sidewalk (if a sidewalk exists) commonly referred to as the “parking” or “easement”; or
(4) On any public property within 50 feet of the property line on which a house of worship is situated, if any entrance to the house of worship is located on that side of the property.
(c) Penalty. Any person violating this section may be punished by:
(1) A fine of not more than $499.00;
(2) Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
(3) Both such fine and imprisonment not to exceed the limits set out in subsections (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. (Ord. 17068 §§ 1 – 3, 1-28-97; Ord. 16843 §§ 1 – 3, 7-11-95. Code 1995 § 54-135.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
