The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
“Alarm system” is any single device or assembly of equipment designed to signal the occurrence of an emergency activity requiring immediate attention and to which public safety personnel are expected to respond. Alarm systems that are designed only to alert persons other than public safety personnel to a medical emergency or to alert persons on the premises, including no outside detectable audible or visual signal and that do not cause undue annoyance of persons on adjoining properties, need not meet the requirements of this chapter.
“Alarm user” is any person in possession of any building, structure or facility, or part thereof, upon which an alarm system is located; any person who purchases, leases, contracts for or otherwise obtains an alarm system; any person who contracts for the servicing or maintenance of an alarm system; or any person who contracts with or hires an alarm business to monitor an alarm system. Alarm users who are in possession of any building or portion of any building designed/used exclusively for one-family and two-family residential dwellings need not meet the requirements of this chapter unless otherwise required by code to have an alarm system.
“CECC” is the Shawnee County Emergency Communications Center.
“False alarm” is an alarm signal eliciting a response by public safety personnel when a situation requiring an immediate response does not in fact exist. An alarm will not be considered a false alarm if the Fire Chief or designee determines that the alarm was caused by:
(1) Natural or manmade catastrophe or an act of God. Such events include tornadoes, floods, earthquakes or other similarly violent conditions.
(2) Vandalism causing physical damage to the premises.
(3) Telephone or data line malfunction verified in writing to the Fire Chief by an authorized telephone or digital service provider representative within seven days of the occurrence.
(4) Electrical service interruption verified in writing to the Fire Chief by an authorized electric utility representative within seven days of the occurrence.
(5) An actual emergency situation.
“Nuisance system” is an alarm system that has had 11 false alarms within a calendar year.
“Public safety personnel” are members of the Topeka Fire Department. (Ord. 20121 § 1, 5-15-18.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
