(a) Owning, Keeping, Maintaining. Except as allowed by subsection (d) of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person, with no requirement of a culpable mental state, to own or keep in his or her possession or under his or her control or maintain any live exotic or captive wild animal within the City limits.
(b) Buying, Accepting in Trade. Except as allowed by subsection (d) of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly buy or accept in trade any live exotic or captive wild animal within the City limits.
(c) Selling, Offering for Sale or Trade. Except as allowed by subsection (d) of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly offer for sale or trade or to sell or trade any live exotic or captive wild animal within the City limits.
(d) Exceptions.
(1) The prohibitions in subsections (a) through (c) of this section shall not apply to bona fide zoos, as defined by the American Association of Zoological Parks and Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums.
(2) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to:
(i) Medical institutions.
(ii) Post-secondary educational institutions.
(iii) Veterinary clinics in possession of the animals prohibited under this section.
(iv) Circuses.
(v) Persons designated and licensed as animal rehabilitators by the State Fish and Game Commission.
(vi) Persons listed in subsections (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(v) of this section who are temporarily transporting such animals through the City, except that circuses and carnivals need not be licensed by the City if merely temporarily transporting an otherwise prohibited animal through the City.
(e) Secure and Sanitary Quarters. All persons and institutions listed in subsection (d) of this section must ensure that all animal enclosures are secure, as defined in TMC 6.05.010 , so as to prevent their escape, conform to the provisions of the nuisance ordinances of the City and are maintained in a clean and sanitary condition for purposes of limiting objectionable odors.
(f) Licensing. All persons and institutions listed in subsection (d) of this section must be properly licensed, if so required, by any rule or regulation promulgated under the authority of Federal statute enacted by the United States, or by any statute enacted by the State, or by any rule or regulation promulgated by any agency or department as authorized by State statute.
(g) Violations. A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a new and separate offense each calendar day the violation continues to exist.
(h) Destruction or Removal of Prohibited Animals. Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the judge of the Municipal Court of the City may order the owner, keeper, possessor or harborer to destroy or remove from the City any animal prohibited under this section. (Ord. 20106 § 39, 12-19-17.)
Cross References: Municipal Judge, TMC 2.20.060 .
