(a) Purpose. This section establishes a process and standards to ensure adequate signage, harmony and visual quality in developments with multiple buildings, uses, or tenants.
(b) Applicability. This section applies to on-premises signs in retail centers, industrial parks, and office or institutional complexes of four acres or more and having five or more establishments or three or more buildings in O&I-2, O&I-3, C-2, U-1, MS-1, C-3, C-4, I-1, I-2 and planned unit development districts. All establishments and buildings in the development defined by the master sign plan shall also be subject to this section.
(c) Master Sign Plan Required. An owner or applicant shall submit and obtain approval of a master sign plan containing standards for all exterior signs.
(1) The master sign plan may be approved concurrent with the approval of a planned unit development, conditional use permit, or site plan.
(2) All new planned unit development applications for development meeting the applicability criteria in this section and submitted for consideration on or after October 1, 2019, shall include a master sign plan.
(3) Upon review of a master sign plan submitted as part of a new planned unit development, major amendment to a planned unit development, or new conditional use permit, the Planning Commission may approve variances to the standards in this chapter. All other master sign plans meeting the purpose and standards of this section may be approved by the Planning and Development Director.
(d) Master Sign Plan Application.
(1) The Planning and Development Director shall prescribe forms and submittal requirements for a master sign plan application. At a minimum the application shall include a site plan identifying the location, number, dimensional standards, and other design standards for all freestanding signs.
(2) The master sign plan shall include standards for wall signs and other types of attached signs or shall reference as applicable the standards for attached signs in TMC 18.10.130 , 18.10.150 and 18.10.160 .
(3) The master sign plan shall be effective only if all owners of real property subject to the master sign plan authorize it by signature on the application or master sign plan.
(e) Standards for Freestanding Signs.
(1) Number of Signs Allowed. Each property or parcel is allowed one freestanding center sign which may be used and designed to identify multiple uses or tenants in the development. In addition to a center sign, any development having more than a single street frontage is entitled to a second freestanding sign subject to the standards in TMC 18.10.130 . Developments having street frontage on an arterial or collector street of more than 500 feet are allowed one additional freestanding sign oriented to the arterial or collector for each additional 500 feet of frontage. Such freestanding signs located within 25 feet of a street frontage shall be spaced a minimum of 250 feet apart. For zoning districts and use groups other than O&I-2 and O&I-3, buildings separate from the primary building are each allowed one freestanding sign, hereinafter referred to as “secondary signs,” subject to subsection (e)(5) of this section. For the purpose of this section the “primary building” is the largest building in the development.
(2) Dimensional Standards for Freestanding Center Signs. The center sign shall comply with the following standards for the applicable zoning district or use group within a planned unit development:
(i) O&I-1/2/3: height of sign not to exceed 15 feet; area of sign not to exceed 100 square feet.
(ii) MS-1: height of sign not to exceed 20 feet; area of sign not to exceed 120 square feet.
(iii) C-2, U-1: height of sign not to exceed 20 feet; area of sign not to exceed 160 square feet.
(iv) C-3, C-4, I-1, I-2: height of sign not to exceed 30 feet; area of sign not to exceed 240 square feet.
(3) Signs at a height of more than 25 feet may be supported by two or more columns each surrounded by cladding matching the overall design of the sign and having a minimum width of two feet per column.
(4) The number of signs located on a center sign may be limited and minimum text size established to ensure sign legibility and readability.
(5) Standards for Freestanding Secondary Signs. Signs for separate buildings shall comply with the following standards:
(i) Height and area: maximum height of seven feet and area of 30 square feet.
(ii) Placement: 10 feet from street rights-of-way and located in proximity to a principal use on the site, and located within 25 feet of a building for the principal use it identifies.
(6) Freestanding Incidental Signs. Proposed freestanding incidental signs shall be included in the master sign plan. Freestanding incidental signs are allowed subject to the standards in TMC 18.10.130 ; however, the Planning and Development Director may restrict the number and area of signs allowed on the master sign plan to a quantity and area less than what is permitted by TMC 18.10.130 . For individual incidental signs, the Planning and Development Director may approve increases in height and area up to 10 percent over the height and area allowed per TMC 18.10.130 .
(7) Spacing between Freestanding Signs. There shall be 50 feet or more distance between all freestanding signs, other than incidental signs.
(f) Standards for Attached Signs. The Planning and Development Director may restrict the number of attached signs per establishment to fewer than what is allowed by TMC 18.10.130 , as a condition of the master sign plan.
(g) Existing Nonconforming Signs. Existing nonconforming signs may continue unless altered or replaced pursuant to TMC 18.10.110 .
(h) Other requirements to improve visual quality of signage may be required as a condition of the master sign plan, including but not limited to the incorporation of materials and other design elements compatible with the buildings in the development subject to the master sign plan. (Ord. 20207 § 15, 9-10-19.)
