The following words, terms and phrases, when used, shall have the meaning ascribed to them herein, except when the context clearly requires otherwise:
“City Forester” refers to the City of Topeka Forester or designated authority.
“D.B.H.” means diameter at breast height. D.B.H. is used for trees with a diameter greater than 12 inches and is measured four and one-half feet above the ground.
“Developed area” means all land area disturbed during the construction of structures, parking facilities, landscaped areas, and similar improvements.
“Developer” means the legal or beneficial owner of a lot or parcel or any land proposed for development and/or inclusion in a development, including the owner of an option, contract to purchase, or lease.
“Development” means the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure or parking facility, or their environs.
“Diameter caliper” means the size of a tree measured through the tree trunk. For trees less than four inches in diameter, it is measured six inches from the ground. For trees between four inches and 12 inches in diameter, it is measured 12 inches from the ground.
“Groundcover” means an evergreen, deciduous planting or ornamental grass, growing generally to less than 15 inches in height and generally spreads more in width than height. Turf grass is specifically excluded.
“Irrigation system” means a permanent underground piping and sprinkler head system designed using industry standard methods to provide uniform irrigation coverage over a landscaped area.
“Landscaped area” means any area planted with groundcover, trees, shrubs, or other plant material that meets the provisions contained herein.
“Monoculture” means a single type of species of planting.
“Mulch” means a natural planting material such as pine straw or tree bark used to control weed growth, reduce soil erosion and reduce water loss.
“Parallel planting peninsula” means a planting island that extends out into the parking area, and is bounded on at least one side by the outer edge of the asphalt or building.
“Parking lot” means any off-street, unenclosed ground level facility used for the purpose of temporary storage of motor vehicles. Included within this definition are unenclosed carports associated with any or all development governed by this chapter. Enclosed parking facilities, such as single or multistory garages or parking facilities constructed within the confines of a larger building or structure, or parking facilities associated with residential development, are not included within this definition.
“Parking lot island” means a planting island contained completely within the confines of a parking facility.
“Parking lot planting” means a planting required due to the construction of noncovered surface parking.
“Recommended tree” means any one of the trees listed in “recommended species” of this chapter (TMC 18.235.130 ). These trees are well suited for the soils and climate of Topeka, Kansas.
“Shrub” means an evergreen or deciduous planting no less than 15 inches in height.
“Significant tree” means any tree with a diameter caliper of six inches or greater. (Ord. 18255 § 1, 6-1-04; Ord. 17846 § 2, 6-11-02. Code 1995 § 48-38.01.)
Cross References: Definitions generally, TMC 1.10.020 .
